---
layout: post
title: <code>hakkenteki[0x00].drafts[1]</code>
---
Everyone has secrets. Some more than others. Some worse than others.

Everyone hides.

Everyone lies.

This is our purest form; there is no innocence in truth or openness. We only
wear masks insofar as we wear skin to hide the flesh within. Perhaps some lies
are simply meant to be told, as the consequences of seeing through them are
simply too much to handle. If that were the case, is it wrong to seek truth? Are
we mistaken to strive to the ends of the universe?

And when we find out all there is to find, what is left? Is there utopia in
omniscience? Or must we suffer the consequences of biting into a great many
forbidden fruit?

"This world isn't so complicated."

I hear a mumble from my right side. Maybe I'm just half asleep but I could have
sworn that seat was empty a moment ago; whatever the case may be, that startled
me enough to make me jolt back in my chair and now I swear the whole lecture
hall is staring at me.

"Any great realizations there Mr., uh..." the professor, Dr. Szabó, pauses to
push up his glasses and take a glance at the roster, "...Ilin?"

He ended that with a chuckle, I can't tell if it was at his own joke or at my
name, Iliya Ilin. I'll admit the alliteration could be a bit humorous, though I
don't think it's so uncommon here as to be noteworthy.

"No, I..." I figure I should give some response, but I can't exactly say that I
nearly fell asleep now can I. "It's nothing."

Drawing attention to myself wasn't exactly the plan, I intended to remain just
another face in the crowd for the next two or three years (depending on my
academic performance) as I did last year. Sure, this is difficult in my
department, with only a handful of students enrolled. To make matters worse,
everyone in this class should be from my program, with maybe one or two
exceptions. Which brings me back to the mysterious character next to me, hiding
a smirk behind the stiff collar of her uniform.

"Well, then I shall continue," that graying old man announces in a stern voice
before turning back to his scrawled notes on the board. I take this as an
opportunity to reposition my chair, all the chairs in this building are old and
rusty so I take great care to not cause any more ruckus by lifting it slightly
above the tiled floor.

Glancing back at the girl next to me, or glaring rather, she seems completely
undisturbed by all of this, just continuing to stare blankly toward the front
with her chin resting on the palm of her hand.

Sure, dozing off in class was my mistake, but in my defense it's the first day
of the semester. All of my classes, this being the fourth today, have just been
long and monotonous overviews of the syllabus. Honestly, we could just read it
over ourselves, but I suppose the professors don't trust the students to read
anything before classes even start. This is my third semester so I'm pretty used
to it by now. Show up, find my seat, try to look like I'm paying attention, fall
asleep.

I don't want another embarrassing situation here, so I'm definitely going to
stay awake at least until the end of this class. It's my last today, I can do at
least this much. I'm certainly... not going... to fall...

When I finally peak my eyes open, everyone's getting out of their seats and
throwing their bags around their shoulders, the chorus of chair scraping across
the floor echoes through the room. I glance to my right, but there's only an
empty chair neatly tucked under the desk.

Ah, well, there's that.

No use getting caught up in petty concerns, I suppose. I push my own chair out
and step out into the aisle to join the herd of students shuffling out into the
hallway. I didn't bring much with me to this class, just a notebook and a
pencil. Easy enough to just tuck the notebook under my arm and throw the pencil
into a pocket in my jacket.

In the hallway, among the crowd, I hear "Oi!" called out over the murmurs of the
many post-class conversations surrounding me. No doubt it's Klaus, a friend of
mine since primary school. Not that either of us specifically chose this school
to be follow the other, or even this department specifically, it just worked out
that way; perhaps whatever makes two people friends also makes them choose
similar options in life, or is it that when together for so long you eventually
influence each other?

I'd say maybe it's similar circumstances, we're both children of second
generation immigrant shop owners, neither have parents with the sort of loose
wallets to spring for tuition at a private academy, and having grown up in the
same town would both then see this university as the best option close to home.
Of course, the earlier point on thinking alike would be more applicable when you
consider that we're in the same program here as well... which means he was
probably somewhere in that lecture hall with me... does it make me a bad friend
to say I didn't notice him there? He must have come in after I'd already nearly
fell asleep, or worse, was already there when I arrived and I failed to pick
him out of the rows of other students.

By now he's already wriggled his way next to me in the rush, I suppose I ought
to give some greeting... "Ah, Klaus, I didn't notice you earlier, how's it
going?"

"Same old, same old, what's up with you?" he asks, but doesn't give me the time
to give any sort of reply. "Oh, what had you all spooked during class? Did you
fall asleep and have a nightmare?" He laughs.

"Something like that, I guess," I mumble my reply, it's a bit embarrassing
really. Though maybe he knows something about the girl that was sitting next to
me. "By the way, did you see that girl sitting next to me?"

Shit, what if he thinks that's related to his question. I mean it is, but...

"Huh? She catch your fancy or something?"

Or maybe not?

"No, it's just..." great, I distracted myself and couldn't come up with a good
reason why I was asking.

"Hmm," Klaus stops walking to strike an exaggerated thinking pose. Great, now
he's blocking traffic over this, just wonderful. "Well, I did see her, yes. But
my godly intuition tells me that you next questions is 'do I know who she is?'
To that, my friend, I must regrettably confess that I do not. Maybe she
transferred in?"

Does he have to me so dramatic about this, damn it. Maybe this is his way of
prying, I'll just play along and hopefully avoid him dragging others into this.
"I doubt that, she just felt... like she belonged here more than I did. I don't
really know how to describe it. I'm certain I've never seen her before but I
can't shake this _feeling_ like I have."

"I see, I see."

"Do you?"

"No, but I have to get to a class on the other end of campus here, you doing
anything later?"

"If you're in such a hurry why are you standing around blocking the hallway?"

"Why indeed," he says as if this is some great philosophical matter, then
finally begins walking again, wrapping his arm around my shoulder as he does so.
"Is it too much to ask that I milk every possible second of my precious break
time to converse with my closest confidant?"

He wants something. I don't know what, but he wants something.

"Anyway, why were you asking if I'm busy?"

"Oh, yes, that. I wanted to swing by your dorm later, I'm trying to get a study
group set up for Modern Theory II."

Not as bad as I was expecting, now to get out of it somehow. "I moved off campus
actually." There, that should do it.

"Shame. I'll just tell you the details when I get more people on board then."

Hell yeah. I lived in the student dorms last year and had to pay out of my own
pockets to stay there. Absurd, really, that not only do we have to pay for state
education but for living expenses as well. An apartment around here costs a bit
more than living on campus, but it was a price I was willing to pay for a little
privacy, and look how well that's playing out. Better than expected.

As we get closer to the west door of the building, the noise and density of the
crowd makes it difficult to have a conversation, we'd just be shouting sardines
and I'm glad Klaus is privy to that being an issue. The doors themselves barely
have a chance to swing a degree or two inward before being shoved again by the
next person to go through, but if their oscillating is causing any noise it
certainly isn't loud enough to be heard over everything else going on.

It's a wet fall outside. I'd have preferred that the fall hold off for a few
weeks, it isn't normally gloomy on the first day of the semester. The ground is
covered in soggy leaves, lifted up by the heel of one rushing student only to be
pounded back to the ground by another. The air is cool, with a slight mist, and
the sky is a flat expanse of gray.

I step to the side of the path, letting the masses pass by on the pavement as my
uniform boots sink ever so slightly into the moist earth of the lawn. I take in
the scenery, feeling a bit listless with nothing much to do tonight. And so I
tilt my head back to stare up. Up at the tops of the trees strewn about the
campus, the more stubborn leaves still clinging to the branches fluttering in
the breeze.

"Here we go," I whisper to myself. "I can do this."

Right now, I could spend the whole evening just staring in the distance, but I
gather up the motivation to eventually step back onto the path. One foot after
the other, trampling on the leaves just like everyone else. I'm done for the
day, sure, going forward my last class on Wednesdays like this one would be
followed by an hour long laboratory, but as it's only the first day there isn't
really a purpose. However, I can't simply stand around idly, at the very least
it would become awkward, with thousands of students passing by me, judging.

I don't have any destination in mind, yet I wander from this end of campus to
the other, and then into the surrounding city. I'm meandering, really, and just
thoughtlessly passing through the cobbles streets. One row of shops, then
another, beyond that is a plaza filled with something of a farmer's market. I
eventually settle on grabbing a bite to eat at a particular baker's stall.

I don't have any grand justifications for it, but I always end up at this stall.
It's become a routine and I don't have much reason to change it. I grab a plain
roll as the shop owner tries to converse with me about this or that. That must
come with the territory, I suppose, regardless of the size of the city, if you
keep on visiting the same spots people will eventually begin to recognize you.

Regardless, a single roll should be sufficient for the evening.
