---
layout: post
title: <code>hakkenteki[0x00].drafts[0]</code>
---
Everyone has secrets. Some more than others. Some worse than others.

Everyone hides.

Everyone lies.

This is our purest form; there is no innocence in truth or openness. We only
wear masks insofar as we wear skin to hide the flesh within. Perhaps some lies
are simply meant to be told, as the consequences of seeing through them are
simply too much to handle. If that were the case, is it wrong to seek truth? Are
we mistaken to strive to the ends of the universe?

And when we find out all there is to find, what is left? Is there utopia in
omniscience? Or must we suffer the consequences of biting into a great many
forbidden fruit?

"The world isn't so complicated," the person sitting next to him mumbled with
their chin rested on their palm. "You'll do nothing but worry at this rate."

Ilya shuddered, as if his mind had been read, jutting his seat out with the
sharp pitch of an old medal chair scraping across tile in surprise. The cause of
his shock merely shifted their eyes back to the front of the room with a "hmph."

"Any great realizations there Mr., uh..." the professor paused to adjust his
glasses and glance at the roster "...Ilin?" He chuckled a bit after his
question, leaving Ilya unsure if it was at his own joke or at the name Ilya
Ilin.

"No, I... it's nothing." Drawing attention to himself was never his plan, he
intended to remain another face in the crowd for the next two years, as he had
the previous one. This, of course, was a difficult task in his department, with
only a handful of students enrolled within. To further worsen the scenario,
everyone in this class should be from his program, with maybe one or two
exceptions. Which would bring one to wonder about the mysterious character next
to him, hiding a smirk behind the stiff collar of the school uniform, who had
seemingly not been there until the moment they startled him.

"Well, then I shall continue." The graying man said sternly before turning back
to his scrawled notes on the board. Ilya took the opportunity to reposition his
chair, lifting it off the ground so as to not cause the same ruckus, all the
while shooting a stinging glare at his unknown classmate.

He was determined to not doze off this time, despite it being the first day of
the semester and all of his classes (of which this was the fourth already) were
simply long and monotonous outlines of the upcoming curriculum. This being his
third semester he had grown accustomed to such things already, nearly instantly
falling asleep once he finds a seat. But now a wildcard has appeared, maybe he
had mentally exaggerated this event but being caught off guard once was enough
for him to remain alert... or so he thought.

When he finally peaked his eyes open as a chorus of chairs scraping the floor
echoed through the lecture hall, Iliya glanced to his right, his eyes met with
an empty chair already neatly tucked under the desk to its front.

'Ah, well, there's that,' he thought. Pushing the earlier encounter to the back
of his mind, Iliya pushed in chair back and stood up with one smooth motion. He
stepped out into the aisle, sliding between a couple classmates to join in the
crowd slowly trickling out the door.

"Oi," a voice calls out to him with a wave. Klaus was one of Iliya's friends
from as far back as primary school. They had stuck together all those years,
ultimately even enrolling in not just the same university but the same program
as well. This, of course, combined with the fact that this class was only
offered every other year meant that he was certainly somewhere in that classroom
earlier, not that Iliya had noticed. Maybe he had arrived first and simply
blended in with the others to the tired eyes of Iliya, or maybe he arrived once
Iliya was already half asleep in the third row.

"Ah, Klaus, I didn't notice you earlier, how's it going?" Iliya greeted him
while walking by, and Klaus kicked off from the wall he was leaning against and
matched pace.

"Same old, same old, what's up with you?" Klaus asked but continued before
receiving an answer, "hey, what had you all spooked during class? Have a
nightmare sleeping in class?"

"Something like that, I guess," a mumbled reply. "By the way, did you see that
girl sitting next to me?"

"Huh? She catch your fancy or something?"

"No, it's just..." he trailed off.

"Hmm," Klaus struck an exaggerated pondering pose. "Well, I did see her, yes.
But your next question is 'do I know who she is?' To that, my friend, I must
confess I simply don't. She a transfer?"

"I doubt that, she just felt... like she belonged here more than I did. I don't
really know how to describe it. I'm certain I've never seen her before but I
can't shake this _feeling_ like I have."

"I see, I see."

"Do you?"

"No, but I have to get to a class on the other end of campus here, you doing
anything later?"

"Not really. Probably just going to sit at my desk and watch ink dry."

"Riveting. I might swing by your dorm later then. I'm trying to gather up a
study group for Modern Theory II."

"I moved off campus actually."

"Shame. I'll just tell you the details when I get more people on board then."

They continued on in silence, making their way out of the building, passing
through doors held open by the clusters of their fellow students ahead of them,
parting ways once outside with a subtle wave, a mumble, a nod.

It was a wet fall. One would have preferred the fall have held off for a few
weeks, it wasn't normally so gloomy on the first day. The ground was covered in
soggy leaves, lifted up by the heel of one rushing student only to be pounded
back to the ground by another. The air was cool, with a slight mist, and the
sky was a flat expanse of gray.

Iliya stood to the side of the path, letting the masses pass by on its pavement
as his uniform boots sunk ever so slightly into the moist earth of the lawn. He
tilted his head back to stare up to the tops of the trees strewn about the
campus, the more stubborn leaves still clinging to the branches fluttered in the
breeze, and he did naught but take it all in. 'Here we go,' he thought, 'another
year, another semester, I can do this.'

When he was ready he stepped back onto the path. One foot after the other,
trampling the leaves along with everyone else. He was done for the day, his last
class on Wednesdays like this would normally be followed by a lab hour, but on
the first day what would have been the purpose.

There was no destination in mind as he wandered from end to end of the campus
and out into the town. He was meandering, really, and continued to do so through
much of the nearby shopping strip. Eventually he settled on grabbing a bit to
eat from a baker's stall, just a plain bread roll. A single roll should be
enough for an evening, it's not as if he had done anything particularly physical
all day, or so his logic went. An added benefit of such a simple snack is that
it can easily be consumed while walking about, and at this point he was intent
on heading back to his apartment.

His one choice in his path had been to end up on the same side of campus as his
eventual endpoint. The other end had a much more popular grocer, with arguably
much more palatable prices than any on this side (especially more than any given
independent stall akin to that which he'd just patronized); but again it was
much more popular, and so Iliya tended to avoid it altogether.

Still, as if guided by unknown forces, Iliya headed back onto campus at this
point. Even he had no notion as to why he felt the need. On the way he attempted
to formulate some sort of justification for himself.

Maybe he just wanted to refamiliarize with the layout, though he had it all
thoroughly memorized it had been a few months since he was here. Maybe he wanted
to reach out to Klaus, reconnect or something of that sort. Maybe he was just
looking for opportunity to jump out at him. Maybe he just still couldn't get
over that encounter earlier, as silly as it might be... the thought, however,
did make some sort of sense once it occurred.

A deliberate search wouldn't have been his style, better to view it much the
same as if hoping for opportunity. He may not have believed in any gods, but was
oft prone to believe that things would simply work out as they were meant to
happen. This should be the same. No need to run about shouting the name he did
not then know into every doorway and alley. Certainly he would just find what he
sought for no reason beyond he must.

So as to not totally go out of his way, he decided on a route that would loop
through this half of the university, beginning near the southwest corner and
ending at the northwest. His confidence boosted by the fact that the outer
sections are almost entirely student housing. If he had to put a number on it,
at this time of day anyone who wasn't in some drawn out lab or off campus would
have a 30% chance of being in the cafeteria near the middle of the school and a
70% chance of being in or around the dormitories.

He tried to be attentive while walking, putting some effort into searching, but
about halfway through he returned to his usual pace. And so he walked briskly
across the wet paths, his head nestled in his buttoned collar, eyes just barely
level and still threatening to fall to the leaves on the ground ahead...

Then he saw just the person he had been looking for, sitting on the end of a
bench, nose in a book nearly the size of their torso, hair twisting over itself
in the wind, eyes scanning back and forth across the pages.

...

He sat himself on the other end of the bench, making an effort to keep his
posture straight, and adjusted the collar on his coat. He glanced over to the
person sitting beside him, once, twice, a pause, a third time; he turned his
whole ehad on the fourth, opened his mouth to speak, and stopped just short of
saying anything.

'What am I doing?' He thought. 'I can't just walk up and talk to her like this,
I don't even have a reason, this was an absurd idea to begin with...' And so he
gave up, slowly shifting his weight back onto his legs, lifting himself up with
a push of his arms off the bench.

"I like the fall. I'm glad it's here already."

...

"Inoue, Yulia Inoue, pleased to meet you, Mr. Ilin," they stated in an earnest,
nearly pompous, tone.

"Oh, right, you already know my name, because the... yeah..."

...

"I'm not sure you would understand if I told you."

"What, is that some sort of secret then?"

"I don't keep secrets anymore," Inoue declared cheerfully. "It's better to get
it all out in the open and over with. You can't hide forever, and as long as you
do you will suffer with nobody there for you."

"For some reason I don't believe you."

"Believe what you will, Mr. Ilin. Truths omitted are not always secrets, more
often they are dangling in front of your eyes, you simply don't notice because
you're looking too far away."
