---
author: redacted
layout: post
tags: fiction magic
title: Magic System Draft
---

_The date on this file is approximate, all I know is that I wrote it when
discussing the idea of making a game centered around a hard magic systems some
time during my sophomore year of high school._

## §1 Magic Basics
### §1.1 Mana
Your maximum mana level is determined by your magic level. You lose mana
frequently as you use magic, but how do you regain it?

Firstly there are mana potions. Mana potions can be brewed, bought, and found in
dungeons or towers. A drink or two of this potion and you should be fully ready
to blow everything up a second time.

Second and most fun option is the Mana Altar. Mana Altars are randomly generated
throughout the world. Throwing items or creatures into the altar will extract
the mana from them. Creatures will leave behind their remains, which at this
point is just a pile of bones.

Last and certainly least is just waiting it out. Over time your mana will slowly
regenerate.

### §1.2 Levels
Your magic level is key in how much mana you have and how many words you can use
in a spell, but how does one level up?

It’s actually simple when you break it down. Like most games your level is
earned with EXP. The amount of EXP you need to level up grows with each level on
a fibonacci scale (ie $0,1,1,2,3,5,8...$).

When you die you lose EXP which will also affect your levels. On average upon
death you will lose half of your EXP. This loss could change based on the level
of your opponent compared to yourself.

Your total levels is often split into two groups: Active Lvl and Used Lvl. Your
active level determines your spell word count and also any other factors that
require a level, except for levelling up which ALWAYS uses your total Level.
Your Used Lvl is the amount of levels that are currently being used by something
like a Summon or a complex magic.

### §1.3 Exp
As earlier stated you need EXP to level up, and here shall explain how you get
and use EXP. The most common way to gain EXP is with magic (of course!). The
amount of EXP gained from a spell is heavily influenced by a spells instability.
By which I mean the more unstable the more EXP. This makes it very interesting
to use magic and also a challenge to balance your spells.

Other forms of earning EXP include enchanting tools and armor.

## §2 Spell Writing
### §2.1 General
Your magic level determines the amount of words you can write into a spell. The
amount of words is equal to your level plus 1. The order of the words determines
the order of operation in mana. Spells are written in this syntax:

```
[Element][Type][Modifier][Modifier] etc...
```

Example:

```
Ignis Tignum Circa Mors
```

This would produce an area beam of fire, with an instakill aspect. The mana
usage would be determined as such:

$$1 \times2\cdot T \times3 \times100$$

Which is $600$ mana per time unit. VERY spendy spell. If you want to use
multiple ELEMENTS per spell you separate them using `et`. When calculating mana
it is represented as a $+$. Example:

```
Ignis et Aqua Murus Circa
```

This would produce a circular wall of steam around you. The mana usage would be
determined as such:

$$1 + 1 \text{^}2 \times3$$

Because the order of operations is ALWAYS left to right (screw math rules), this
is read as $((1+1)^2)\times3 = 12$ Mana. A special modifier known as 'Multiple'
can be used for some cheaty things :3. Though each use uses up 4 words. Example:

```
Ignis Impes Nonnullus per modum Nemo
```

This is kinda cheaty because Multiple allows you to change the amount of mana
used with some perks. The Zero number for multiple divides the mana by two, but
doesn't change the attack. This is because you cannot have less than one attack
per attack -\_- With this modifier this spell uses $1/2$ Mana. Mana ALWAYS
rounds up so this is a useless waste of $4$ words in a spell, but it is just a
proof of concept.

### §2.2 Instability
Instability factors help determine the chance of a spell working correctly. To
find the chance of a spell not working we use the following equation:

$$\vert100 - \left(\sum\frac{\vert i\vert}{100}\right)\vert$$

Where $i$ is the instability value of a word. If a spell if too unstable it may
even just completely implode and kill you rather than doing anything else.

### §2.3 Spell Books
Each book can contain up to $25$ spells. As a starter you get a ‘General’ book
that works equally with all spells. You can find or buy new books, most of which
will be type specific. For instance if you have a Fire Book and you use a fire
type spell it will reduce the mana cost by $10%$, if you try using a different
type of spell it will increase the mana cost by $10%$. Type specific books will
often include an aid for writing spells in that type.

Books that you find in towers or trade with wizards for will often already
include spells, though they aren’t always well written.

### §2.4 List of Words

| Element       | Usage             | Mana            | Instability |
|:--------------|:------------------|:---------------:|:-----------:|
| Fire          | Ignis, Flamma     | 1               | -1          |
| Water         | Aqua, Lympha      | 1               | +1          |
| Earth         | Terra, Tellus     | 1               | +1          |
| Ice           | Glacies           | 1               | +1          |
| Plant         | Herba             | 1               | +1          |
| Lightning     | Fulmen            | 1               | -1          |
| Air           | Aer               | 1               | +1          |
| Life          | Vita              | 2               | +1          |
| Magic         | Magia, Praecantio | 2               | +1          |
| Evil/Dark     | Malum             | 2               | -1          |
| **Type**      |                   |                 |             |
| Attack        | Impes             | x1              | -1          |
| Enclose       | Obsepio           | x5              | -2          |
| Defend        | Custodio, Contego | xT(Time Based)  | +2          |
| Push          | Truso, Pello      | x2              | -1          |
| Pull          | Druco, Importo    | x2              | +1          |
| Beam          | Trigum            | x2T(Time Based) | -2          |
| **Modifier**  |                   |                 |             |
| Wall          | Murus             | ^2              | x2          |
| Multiple      | Nonnullus*        | x1              | -5          |
| AOE           | Circa             | x3              | +2          |
| Healing       | Medella           | +4              | +1          |
| Sickness      | Morbus            | +4              | -1          |
| Poison        | Venenum, Virus    | +4              | -2          |
| Instakill     | Mors              | x100            | -100        |
| **Number**    |                   |                 |             |
| One           | Unum              | x1              | +1          |
| Two           | Duo               | x2              | +2          |
| Three         | Tres              | x3              | +3          |
| Four          | Tetradium         | x4              | +4          |
| Five          | Quinctus          | x5              | +5          |
| Six           | Senio             | x6              | +6          |
| Seven         | Septem            | x7              | +7          |
| Eight         | Octo              | x8              | +8          |
| Nine          | Novem             | x9              | +9          |
| Ten           | Decem             | x10             | +10         |
| A Lot         | Multus, Conplus   | x15             | -15         |
| None          | Nemo              | x1/2            | -15         |
| **Mixed Element** |               |                 |             |
| Steam         | Fire + Water      | 1               | +2          |
| Snow          | Water + Ice       | 1               | +2          |
| Bubble Shield | AOE + Wall        | ^5/2            | +5          |

## §3 Summoning
### §3.1 General
Summoning is as always very useful for getting some fighting pals. Though it
will be tough to do because you will need to know the Summon's Call. Summoning
requires Life and Magic combined as `Vita et Magia` or `Vita et Praecantio`. The
syntax of any summon spell is as follows:

```
Vita et Magia Ego Vocare Te Apud [Call]
```

`Ego Vocare Te Apud` means "I summon you with". This is the pretext to the Call.
Each Different summon has it's own call. Example:

```
Vita et Magia Ego Vocare Te Apud Potest de Cybium
```

This spell summons you a Cat Familiar. If a summon spell is written even
slightly off there can be massive consequences. The most common side effect will
be hostility in the Summon.

### §3.2 Calls
To obtain a call you have a few options. First, you can find Call Books in
dungeons. Call books are notebooks written by previous wizards who often died at
the hands of a summon, so be wary of the last written call. Secondly there are a
few spells using Magic and Pull effects that have a chance of pulling a Call
Scroll from a creature, the rarer the creature the less likely it is to work.
The third option is to collect a Call Scroll upon killing a creature. Every
creature has a small chance of dropping their Call Scroll upon death. The last
official option is pain. If a creature goes through enough pain it could shout
out its call (fyi mana altars cause a lot of pain).

All calls have an instability factor of $\times0$. Making all summoning spells
have no instability whatsoever, unless you write extra things after the call.

### §3.3 Minions
Minions are in a way like disposable Summons. They are a type of Summon who are
made using pure Evil and Life. The syntax of any Minion spell is as follows:

```
Vita et Malum Laboro [Order]
```

When using a Minions spell there are very few possible minions. That aside they
are completely and utterly stupid. to use a minion, assign it to an object. Any
further instructions and its head will explode, you simply have to hope it'll do
its job the way you want it to.

### §3.4 Usage
When using magic there is always something that must be sacrificed. In the case
of summoning it is you active level that suffers. Each Summon has its own level
value that is both the required level to summon it and the amount of levels
subtracted from your Active Level and put into your Used Level.

### §3.5 Modifiers
Just summoning a summon is freaking boring, they’re all standard and stuff, BUT
FEAR NOT! There is a way to make it more fun! Modifiers I tell you, just slap
these babies onto your call and VIOLA a better summon. Same Instability rules
apply as in any other spell, so as usual: BALANCING IS YOUR FRIEND!

### §3.6 List of Summons

| Summon | Call | Magic | Description | Level |
|---|---|---|---|:---:|
| Amphisbaena | Duo Vocat | False | A snake with a head on both ends. | 10 |
| Stymphalian Bird | Plumis de Metallo | False | A man-eating bird with a bronze beak and shootable metal feathers | 15 |
| Sphinx | Cattus et Mulier Corpora | True | A creature that has the upper body of a female and the lower body of a lion. | 20 |
| Laelaps | an Praedam ad Nunquam Capiatur | False | A dog destined to always catch its prey. | 15 |
| Mare of Diomedes | Sapidum Homines | False | Man eating horse. | 15 |
| Chthonic Cat | Infernum bis Tincto | True | Hell cat that uses fire magic. | 20 |
| Hydra | Rei Angues Similis | False | A snake thing that regenerates two heads where one was cut off, unless the stump it burnt. | 30 |
| Ipotane | a Bonus Locus ut Stomp | False | Just a human with horse legs. | 15 |
| Hippocamp | Natantibus Equus Rei | False | A horse with a fish tail. | 10 |
| Abarimon | Vicissim Calcaementa | False | Really fast humans with backwards feat. | 10 |
| Acheri | Immuni Filioli| True| A ghost that brings sickness to people. Thus the whole magic using part. | 20 |
| Akupuru | Posuit Mundi Down Occidere Persona cucurbitae Mortuum | True | The turtle that holds up the earth. Uses life and plant magics. | 30 |
| Al-mi’raj | Lepus Unicornis | False | A unicorn rabbit. | 10 |
| Aobozu | Hyacintho Raptorem Monachus Memorabilium | True | A creepy blue monk that punishes children or something like that... I’ll just tell you that it’s Japanese, now can you figure it out? | 15 |
| Cacus | Novum Palatinus Collis | True | A giant fire breathing giant. Uses fire magic. | 20 |
| Camulatz | Capita Adam et Eva | False | The thing that ate the heads of the first men. | 15 |
| Chimera | Dorcas Hirnea et Mures | False | A lion with a random goat sticking out of it and its tail is replaced by a snake, IDK ask the Greeks they made the darn thing up. | 20 |
| Colo Colo | Ego ne Sciunt Quidem | False-ish | Rat bird hybrid that can turn into a snake (o.o) | 20 |
| Chockatrice |Parvula Draco Gallinaceo| True | A chicken dragon, it uses fire magics ^-^ | 25 |
| Cat Familiar | Potest de Cybium | False | It’s a cat... familiar... >.> | 15 |
| Drop Bear | Eucalyptus Relinquit | False | A koala bear that jumps from trees and eats people. | 10 |
| Goblin | Parvula Thesaurum | False | IDK, it’s a goblin... I guess... ?_? | 10 |
| Grigori | Causa Cadere | True | A fallen angel, it uses Dark magics ~mwahahah | 15 |
| Griffin | Volantes Mures et Bis Tincto | False | It’s a flying lion, that is all. | 20 |
| Inapertwa | Aliqua Instrumenta et Officium | False | Little builder dudes that hopefully fix your screw ups cuz you suck at magic. | 15 |
| Dog Familiar | Os | False | Just a damn dog. | 8 |
| Eagle Familiar | Volantes Piscis | False | An Eagle... | 10 |
| Rabbit Familiar | Coniugem et Foramen | False | A Rabbit... | 10 |
| Horse Steed | Fenisicia | False | A Horse... | 8 |
| Dragon Guard | Divitias ad Custodiam | True | A dragon... it uses Fire Magic... I guess... | 40 |
| Pack Mule | Oneratis ad Portandum | False | It carries your stuff... | 15 |
| Imp | Parvula Pugione | True | Little demon with a knife (if you have one otherwise they get pissed), they use teleportation magic. | 15 |
| Phoenix | Calidum Farinam | True | A Fire bird that uses Fire Magic and stuffs... | 20 |
| Shoulder Monkey | Ariera | False | A monkey that sits on your shoulder just so i have to do the artwork for it ^-^ I hate myself. | 8 |
| Turtle | Aliquod Bonum Harundinibus et Sumptus Solvit Trinus ut a Obstinatus Hotel Quia i Amare Turtures | False | Just a turtle... | 50 |


### §3.7 List of Modifiers

| Modifier            | Usage                |    Instability   |
|---------------------|----------------------|:----------------:|
| Color               | Pigmentum [Color]    |        +5        |
| Set Can Use Magic   | Uti Potest Magia     |        +10       |
| Set Can’t Use Magic | Uti Non Potest Magia |        -10       |
| Make Bigger         | Grandior [Num]       |        -1        |
| Enchant With        | Commotis Per         |        +10       |
| Use Mana Actively   | Furetur Plures       | +2M (Mana Based) |

### §3.8 Modifiers Expanded
Modifiers affect the level usage of a summon only when they cause the total word
count to go above the previously set level of the summon. Summoning spells
atypically have an instability of $0$, until a modifier changes it, which means
you gain no EXP from a summon whatsoever. Instability on a summon could be very
dangerous in a large number of ways that I’m too lazy to think of.

## §4 Magic Tools
### §4.1 Weapons
Finding a magical weapon is probably as rare as something that is very, very
rare, but there is an alternative. Opening up an interface for your tool you
will be able to write spells on the weapon itself. The syntax of basic weapon
spells is as follows:

```
Magia et Telum Convenio [Element]
```

A basic spell like this will simply give the weapon an elemental aspect. It will
behave accordingly to its element, using up its mana charge as it does. There
are also much more complex spells to cast on a weapon. Using modifiers and such
to do so. The syntax of more complex weapon spells is as follows:

```
Magia et Telum Convenio [Element] Exim Ago [Modifier]
```

`Exim Ago` means to "Do After That", so write weapon spells in order as you want
them to act. Weapon modifiers act as the weapon itself. So if you tell a weapon
to beam then AOE; the weapon will create a beam and wherever it hits it will do
an AOE.

The most complex spells you can apply to a weapon are ones that will do multiple
spells in a sequence. The syntax of the most complex weapons spells is as
follows:

```
Magia et Telum Laboro ( [SPELL] ) Exim Ago ( [SPELL]) etc...
```

Sequenced weapons spells like this activate the next step upon an event. Events
are any change in status of the weapon; for instance the bow. The sequence of
events for a bow’s arrow is as follows:

```
Shot => Flying => Hit => Retrieved
```

This means you can set an arrow to explode on impact or to create a beam as it
flies. It also means you have to make sure to not allow it to hurt you as you
shoot it. Weapons need mana too! But don’t get your hopes up, they aren’t going
to actively take yours. A weapon needs to be charged beforehand to allow it to
use magical aspects.

### §4.2 Staffs
Staffs act as cheap magic conduits. Using a staff will reduce your mana cost by
$1-5%$ (randomly fluctuates). Higher level staffs will have even higher mana
cost reductions. Another way a staff can reduce mana cost is by binding a spell
to it, creating a spell staff. Spell staffs have a mana cost reduction at a
constant of $35%$.

### §4.3 Transportation
Using spells for transportation could result in a multitude of solutions. One of
them is Teleportation. Teleportation spells are simple spells in action and also
mediocre in writing. Though the effects of instability could be very very bad...
in some instances your armor might not come with you, or you might even lose
some pixels. The basic teleportation spell is as follows:

```
Magia Me Tolle Ibi
```

This spell means "Magic Take Me to There". If generic teleportation isn’t your
style and you want some awesome fiery effect then you can add some elements. The
basic syntax of an elemental teleportation spell is as follows:

```
Magia et [ELEMENT] Me Tolle Ibi
```

Though all that adding an element to a teleport does is add aesthetics and
instability. The mana cost of a teleportation spell is set in relation to the
amount of stuff you have.

Another form of magical transportation is a "grappling hook". Though it is just
a specific combination of elements, the grappling hook is still worth pointing
out. It is a combination of a beam and pull. The basic grappling hook spell is:

```
Magia Importo et Trigum
```

Be careful with modifiers to this spell, they can be quite dangerous. For
instance: adding an AOE to this spell will rip your character apart.

The last major form of magical transportation is a double jump. Double jump is a
result of enchanting boots with the following spell:

```
Magia et Aer Truso
```

### §4.4 Armor Enchantments
Armor enchantments work similarly to weapon enchantment. Enchanting the armor
with a spell (usually a defense spell) will cause it to activate upon being hit.
Using the defense type will greatly increase your defenses. Because it only
activates when provoked the time based mana cost is not as bad as a constant use
of the spell. Also due to it activating when needed it has a mana cost increase
of $10%$.

Like weapons and staffs, Armor with enchantments must be pre-charged with the
mana it will be taking up when using spells.

### §4.5 Jewels
Jewels are rare magical stones that can be found in destroyed terrain, bought,
or found in towers and dungeons. Each weapon, staff, and piece of armor in the
game has a ‘Jewel Slot’. Jewels are to be placed in that slot. A jewel will add
an aspect to an item such as more mana storage, lower mana costs, and higher
damage/defense.

### §4.6 Charging
To charge an item you must bring it to a mana altar. If you put an enchanted
item in a mana altar it will not suck mana out of it, but rather suck mana out
of you to charge the item. When you charge an item the altar VERY forcefully
pull mana out of you, and possibly even cause damage to you. The only other
option for charging is to get a charging jewel infused into the item. The
charging jewel takes mana from your character less forcefully but also VERY
slowly.

### §4.7 List of Jewels

| Jewel       | Effect                   |
|-------------|--------------------------|
| Ruby        | Mana Cost -5%            |
| Sapphire    | Effectivity +10%         |
| Diamond     | Recharge Mana            |
| Dragonstone | Mana Cost -10%           |
| Emerald     | Instability /2           |
| Amethyst    | Recharge Mana (Speed /2) |

## §5 Potions
### §5.1 General
A potion is a magical brew that gives an effect type magic to something. A
potion must usually be drunk, but if you throw it into someone/thing’s face
correctly you might just get the right effects out of it. To obtain a potion you
must find it in a tower or dungeon, trade for or buy one, or brew it in a
cauldron. A cauldron holds enough water to brew 16 potions(once filled). To brew
in it you must light a fire under it to keep it boiled, then dissolve the
ingredients into the boiling water. When the brewing is done you must scoop the
contents into vials. If you brew a potion without cleaning the cauldron from the
last one, then you will get very interesting side effects.

Potions have the same Instability effects as spells. A common effect of an
unstable potion is a total reversal of effect. If a potion is supposed to lower
damage received, then it will increase the damage you take. There is no effect
based on the order you add ingredients in with potions, but different
ingredients have different index values. Ingredients with higher values take
priority over those with lower values.

### §5.2 List of Potion Ingredients

| Ingredient   | Effect     | Mana | Instability | Index |
|--------------|------------|:----:|:-----------:|:-----:|
| Rabbit Foot  | Nimbility  |   2  |      +3     |   1   |
| Cat Tail     | Stealth    |   5  |      -3     |   9   |
| Turtle Shell | Resilience |  10  |      +5     |   7   |
| Rose         | Obedience  |  15  |      -7     |   5   |
| Stone        | Oppression |  10  |      -9     |   5   |
| Oak Root     | Strength   |   7  |      +7     |   3   |
| Dandelion    | Fertility  |   3  |      +3     |   1   |
| Cocaine      | Activity   |  11  |      -9     |   2   |
| Oxycontin    | Ignorance  |   1  |      +2     |   10  |
| Nekomimi     | Awareness  |   4  |      -5     |   3   |
| Brush        | Weakness   |   6  |      -7     |   1   |
| Snake Head   | Venunum    |   6  |      -4     |   7   |
| Feather      | Lightness  |  13  |      +6     |   5   |
| Hemp         | Hunger     |   6  |      -5     |   6   |
| Bat Head     | Blindness  |   7  |      -7     |   2   |
| Iron Ingot   | Weight     |   4  |      +3     |   5   |
| Snake Skin   | Lengthen   |  *2  |      +6     |   10  |
| Bobtail      | Shorten    | *0.5 |      -6     |   10  |
| Honey        | Prosperity |  10  |      +3     |   5   |
| Lilac        | Sickness   |   7  |      -3     |   6   |
