---
author: redacted
entry: 10
layout: post
series: uwrfvoice
set: 102
title: General Relativity's Astronomical Effects
tags: relativity column student-voice
---

*This post was published in [Student Voice](http://uwrfvoice.com) [Volume 102,
Issue 10](http://uwrfvoice.com/pdf/151120studentvoice.pdf) as ["Thinking about
theory of relativity can garner many impactful
realizations."](http://uwrfvoice.com/etcetera/14981)*

**F**our score and another score ago, Einstein introduced the idea of general
relativity. Well, that’s when he presented the results at the Prussian Academy
of Science. **U**nlike previous models for gravity and such, this relativity
thing actually accounted for reality. **C**onsequentially, a lot more science
was able to be understood thereafter. **K**arl Schwarzschild, for instance, went
on the following year to calculate the Schwarzschild Metric, which allows us to
describe gravitational collapse (i.e. black holes).

**T**his was arguably one of the greatest leaps in science during the twentieth
century. **H**aving all these new calculations let all this physics and stuff
happen. **E**rgospheres are a pretty cool thing, black holes and whatnot.

**E**veryone needs to stop and think about black holes more often. **N**ow that
you’ve stopped and are thinking about black holes, consider some more stuff.
**G**ravity, for instance, is so strong that the escape velocity is greater than
the speed of light. **L**ight being the fastest thing in the universe (besides
the universe itself, obviously). **I** think I may be getting off topic.
**S**omething, something, black holes, something, something, relativity… oh
yeah, that’s what this was about. **H**umor the thought of black holes a little
longer though.

**D**ragging everything back into the more localized sectors of the galaxy now.
**E**veryone knows Pluto isn’t a planet, at least, everyone is supposed to know
because it is a fact. **P**lanets are apparently a very hot topic these days.
**A**stronomy, which studies such things, actually has a pretty good example of
why general relativity is so important. **R**egular old Newtonian gravitational
models just don’t cut it in the real world. **T**here was once a theoretical
planet called ‘Vulcan,’ theorized to account for the peculiarities in Mercury’s
orbit (Urbain Le Verrier proposed this idea). **M**ercury, however, is actually
the closest planet to the sun. **E**instein’s general relativity actually
explains the previous miscalculations (because science, Google it). **N**ow we
don’t have to go around making up planets and other arbitrary parameters to fix
our silly mistakes. **T**oday, we actually accommodate for the properties of
space before trying to calculate things within it.
