---
author: redacted
layout: post
title: Sunny Day
tags: short-story
---

It was a sunny day, not that I could be bothered to give a damn about things in
the sky. I had my eyes on the prize and not much more. One way or another I was
to end the day $0.15 richer.

You see, one must set goals for themselves. Goals that are difficult to reach.
But not goals that are completely unreasonable. The goal of this particular day
was to “make bank,” as those involved in gang-related crime on popular
television series would say.
{: .no-indent}

To be honest, I had this goal on my calendar for weeks ahead of time. I knew it
would be difficult and would take plenty of preparation. Yet I procrastinated, I
didn’t even recall this goal until the rare western wind blew through the cracks
in my wall to relieve my calendar of the dust it had gathered.

“Damn,” I said aloud to myself when I noticed all of this. “Fuck shit fuck whore
damn cunt it all to fuck hell,” I thought so loudly my neighbor started pounding
on my wall and moaned with – presumably – anger. Obviously it was completely
unnecessary for her to continue pounding on the wall for a solid half hour, but
I waited for her to stop her complaining before proceeding with my plans for the
day.

Step 1: Shower.

This is the easiest part of the day. Rick, my upstairs neighbor, is a plumber.
Rick is also the nicest guy I ever met. Last week he and some of his buddies ran
around in their ghost costumes and hung a weight from the pipe outside my window
so I could use it to shower. It started stinking real bad a couple days ago, but
it still works just fine for bathing. Just let the water dribble down my hair a
little bit and head on my way.
{: .no-indent}

Step 2: Wing it.

My plan ended there. I don’t know how one acquires so much money, but as my
uncle Joe always said: “ye can’t do what ye can’t know not to never not do all
day without doing not that.” Solid advice given from a solid man. (Uncle Joe
eats 5mg of iron every day to make himself even more solid).
{: .no-indent}

Nonetheless, I set out on my journey. I was going to make it big that day. I lit
the honorary torch of the endeavor and stepped out of my apartment. As I walked
into the hall, I noticed a glint off in the distance: coinage! There, down the
hall were a nickel and a dime! The gods had blessed me!

I dropped the honorary torch where I stood and darted to the monies to claim
them as my own before any others could. The victory bells rang as the crown
cheered me on, spraying water every which way to celebrate my accomplishment of
my one true goal for the day.

I was a hero.
{: .no-indent}

Even the cops that showed up wanted to meet me.
{: .no-indent}

Over all, good day.
{: .no-indent}
