---
author: tjhoglund
entry: Oct. 19, 2016
layout: post
series: acmmin
tags: minutes school acm
title: ACM  Meeting Minutes
---

1. Our toolkit, that we bought, has arrived. We now have a toolkit. Arthur is
   bringing the toolkit.
2. The lab manager(s) is/are in charge of acquiring materials and such for the
   room, e.g. paper towels, as well as changing the garbage/recycling, and
   cleaning the boards in the room. You know, managing the lab.
3. ACM's International Collegiate Programming Competition is on October
   29<sup>th</sup>. Teams must be three people, and we need to figure out
   transportation. This needs to be agreed upon and finalized, today. Teams are
   for the most part finalized and transportation is good, and everyone is
   eligible, yay!
4. MICS testing round starts next week, choose between Monday October
   24<sup>th</sup>at 4:30pm and Thursday October 27<sup>th</sup> at 5:00pm. This
   is the first step in our preparation for MICS this year, please attend one of
   these if you plan on going to MICS.
5. The next LAN Party will be November 4<sup>th</sup> to 5<sup>th</sup>. It will
   be funded.
6. The chairs! We are replacing six or seven of the wooden chairs with these
   rolling white-ish office chairs (may or may not be the ones from SH 218 that
   everyone avoids?).
7. Mr. Derick Edwards, from some company, is coming in to the next meeting,
   October 26<sup>th</sup>, to talk about the Innovation Challenge. He has seen
   a massive lack of Computer Science students competing in this and want to
   encourage creativity and innovation in the department, not necessarily as
   part of the competition.
8. How much money should we reallocate from the advertisement budget? All of it
   seems to be fairly agreed upon.
9. There is a large box of old equipment we planned on getting rid of, if anyone
   want any of it, feel free!
10. There is an arcade downtown, Mark thinks it is cool so people should go.
    Bobby has the high score for Ms. Pacman. It is open from Noon-7pm every day,
    10pm on Fridays.
11. Our promotional video? Where we at on that fam? We’ll figure that out.
