---
author: trew
layout: post
tags: music collaboration
title: Pop Tarts (God)
---

_This post was written as a submission to an open call by @ruinedpicnic on
[twitter](https://twitter.com) (now called @punishedpicnic) for music to sing._

<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 120px;"
src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=706583445/size=large/bgcol=ffffff
/linkcol=0687f5/tracklist=false/artwork=none/track=1379676702/transparent=true/"
seamless>
<a href="http://ruinedpicnic.bandcamp.com/album/ruined-picnic-and-friends">
Ruined Picnic and Friends by ruined picnic and friends</a></iframe>

Every single morning I wake up in a state of peace.<br>
As if part of the void, or an emptiness at least.<br>
When not quite awake, life itself can be like a dream.<br>
Like the pop tarts that are flavored like cookies and cream.

My god and your god are both just the same.<br>
But you gave your god some other name.

Truth is, I can’t really write music.<br>
I don’t fucking know how.<br>
It’s, like, really difficult.<br>
I keep counting all the syllables in each line.<br>
Rhyming en and em has got to be a crime.<br>
But it actually makes this a lot easier.<br>
Syllables don’t matter if you sing wheezier.

I was trying to be super serious about this.<br>
But nobody really cares if your lines don’t rhyme.<br>
Well, maybe some people do.<br>
But I don’t really care who.<br>

Point is, I can’t wait to die.<br>
Heaven and hell are no different.<br>
It’s all about semantics.<br>
And other –antics.<br>
I wish I could play music.<br>
But I actually cannot do that at all.

My god and your god are both just the same.<br>
But you gave your god some other name.

Back on point: if you’re happy, maybe there’s nothing.<br>
And if you’re sad, maybe there’s nothing.<br>
If death is a void then it would be both.<br>
So heaven and hell are just how you label it.

Also god is random quantum oscillations.<br>
Hear me out, in a musical manner.<br>
God controls the universe in a way we can’t understand.<br>
Due to the uncertainty principle.<br>
We can’t 100% understand how quantum oscillations happen.

My god and your god are both just the same.<br>
But you gave your god some other name.
