---
author: redacted
entry: Dec. 7, 2016
layout: post
series: acmmin
tags: minutes school acm
title: ACM Meeting Minutes
---

- Today we are continuing our discussion about the upcoming Makeathon and the
  potential for a maker space here on campus.
  - This Makeathon will be hosted here at the university, wherein teams would be
    given a certain amount of time to design and produce a workable application
    to meet some criteria of a prompt that would be given to them.
- This is Nate. He is an agro-engineering major. He is working on a project that
  would use photos taken by a drone to analyze pests, fungus, diseases, etc in
  the field using visual identification. The field will look fairly homogenous
  and would take a great deal of articulation to point these values out. This
  has never been done before. He has some sample data taken by a company that
  professional takes said pictures. "No one has ever done this before." If
  interested, please shoot an email to [REDACTED]
  - These images are in ultraviolet, the light refracted in this spectrum can
    help determine infected plants, healthy vs unhealthy. So this isn't nearly
    as overbearing as it seems at firsts.
  - What is the project trying to do? To come up with a method to determine if a
    crop is unhealthy, why, and determine the proper remedy for this problem.
- Back to the Makeathon. There was much discussion of whether the Makeathon
  should focus on programming/physical space/data collection and analysis as
  well as what types of problems to have teams solve. Possible ideas for what to
  have for a competition:
  - Nanoparticles/scattering
  - Haptic feedback for augmented/virtual reality
  - Idea generator
  - Stock analysis/automated trading
  - Horse equipment sizing adjustments
  - Sensors for in/egress of buildings/HVAC
  - IoT sensors to detect level of fullness for trash/recycling bins and
    determine the most efficient path to follow when clearing them
  - Mirror adjustments for optical cavities
  - Drones with three dimensional cameras and virtual reality controls
  - Augmented reality maps and destinations
  - Cryptography and data secrurity
  - Service robots for the disabled
  - ~~Schick Hydro bot~~
  - Twitter analysis to determine moods/events
