---
author: tjh
layout: post
tags: blog
title: It is 5am and I Give Up
---

I have no real motivation to do anything. Not to be awake, not to go to sleep.
Not to stay here, not to go anywhere else. It’s a tricky thing, this motivation.
Humans, as it would seem, need a reason to do anything. That reason can be as
little arbitrary bullshit as some ancient societal structure that is simply
outdated by literally everything that constitutes the modern era of information,
but nonetheless it is some reasoning that some human finds enough to be
motivated. People, on average, are apparently easy to motivate. Superficial
things like status and temporary situations are enough to do the trick.

How, then, am I motivated? What makes me happy? What makes me willing to put any
effort forth for something? No clue. I simply have no clue. In the past, it
seems I’ve done things simply because I could and would otherwise be bored. At
my job that I’m going to quit later today, for instance, I manage to get quite a
bit done. It isn’t as if I actually care about the success of the business, or
how much my coworkers think well of me as they see me accomplish whatever
arbitrary bullshit our manager decided that we should work on that particular
night. No, for the most part I only do anything there because as long as they’re
paying me to not leave, I should stay in order to obtain that money so I can
ignore money in general otherwise, and as long as I’m there, being paid, I might
as well keep busy.

I texted my assistant manager today that I didn’t want to go. I didn’t call
because I didn’t feel like talking, and every time I try to call in they make it
into some sort of argument. “But we’re busy,” they will say. “Can you at least
come in and do this much?” they will ask me. I don’t want to go, I’m having an
existential crisis and I haven’t slept in days.

We should bike to the state park. It was an idea my brother had when I had
already invested into not being at work. At first I really didn’t want to, I had
already made my stance for the day: zero motivation to do anything other than
lay there and accept the fact that I have no emotional connection to reality or
the persons within. Eventually I figured that a state park in the fall is as
good a place as any to be having an existential crisis. “Where’s your bike?”
asked my brother, as I was tying my shoes atop the stairs. I thought he was
fucking with me, trying to get me to freak out. It’s supposed to be just out in
the driveway. Apparently he was only asking because he figured I would know
where my bike is. In the past, I have left it at the science hall, because I
would bike to class then end up walking to some other building with other people
for lunch or whatnot. This wasn’t the case. We checked. We looked at all the
bike racks I would have locked it to and more. Somebody stole my bike.

I kept it out in the driveway because out front door opens inward into the small
entrance area, which is then taken up by my roommate’s bike which he refused to
move or ever fucking use. I wouldn’t care so much if I hadn’t just lost my van.
Things that weren’t oil had gotten into the oil tank. When it originally stopped
running in the middle of an intersection at the end of an onramp, we pushed it
over to the side of the road and checked the oil. I thought it looked a bit
high, but everyone else just said it was dirty. Dirty as in gasoline not oil,
apparently. So, I can’t really just leave this boring little town without a
week’s preparation and involving other people. But at least I could bike
anywhere in town… not anymore, somebody stole my god damn bike.

Why the fuck would you steal a bike around here? Where could you possibly need
to go that warrants stealing somebody else’s bike? Especially when there are
public bikes free to use. I suppose the public ones are a bit bad, and I didn’t
lock my bike up. Because, you know, here in the glorious United States of
America, if you don’t protect your property then you clearly have no right to
own it. I made this same point earlier, and my brother mentioned the one
exception: slaves. Which is really fucked up, but it is true that we forced
slaves to go back to their ‘owners,’ even without the ‘owners’ ever really
helping enforce it. Oh, the lengths people will go to just to protect their
stupid structures.

On Friday, I bought a suit jacket, my birthday is coming up and my mother said
she would buy it for me but it would take a while because she needed to do
budgeting things. I figured it was easier for me to just buy it myself, I had
the money, whatever. When I tried put it on, with a white collared shirt and a
black tie, my mother said I looked like Stalin. Sadly, I think she meant old
Stalin, not young and attractive Stalin. It did look hella twentieth century,
though. I’m not normally one to be so easily motivated by capitalistic things,
like buying clothes, but it did sort of complete a style. The idea of something
actually being complete in my life was rather satisfying. I was almost motivated
to do something, but seeing as I had all of my notebooks and a few textbooks and
yet did absolutely no schoolwork would say otherwise.

This did take a bit of the edge off, however. The edge I had because I had just
gotten out of a session with my therapist where I had complained about how
unmotivated I had been. For a solid hour I bitched about how I was unable to
naturally pick up on my 400-level physics classes. How I couldn’t think as
clearly as I used to. I somehow brought this back around to good old
existentialism. The illusion of choice. I can’t really believe in choice. He
said this would definitely make him feel unmotivated, to think that nothing he
could do would ever have any effect on reality. But it isn’t just philosophy, I
just don’t feel like reality matters. Like there’s a disconnect between the
theory of the world and the actuality.

The pros and cons of ever doing anything. The complete apathy on the other side
of the coin. He said that if I didn’t care about people then what’s to stop me
from going into a therapy session and never revealing anything about myself. I
told him I would never do that and lightly laughed for a good minute. I do that
all the fucking time. I don’t know me and I don’t know how to talk about me.
This is me talking about me. I think, but I really don’t know.

Being comfortable around people has never felt natural to me. Another thing we
talked about. People in oppressive situations tend to grow closer. A mean/strict
teacher or a jerk of a manager will meet the criteria for this. People would
agree their situation is bad and bond together to survive. On the other hand, I
don’t really care to be treated like shit, it’s either annoying or has no effect
on me. In both cases, I can’t relate to all the other people. I don’t really
care about other people.

Have I ever? I guess I did sort of once. I tend to have expectations for people
that I never really expect them to meet. She did, she always did. It was absurd.
She defined my perfect and I don’t think anyone I will ever meet will meet that
perfect ever again. Especially in this little town. I need to get out. I’ve lost
my van and my bike and I just need to get the fuck out of here.

Whenever I think about my life, where I am, where I’ve been, I feel more like
I’m telling a story I’ve made up than describing the life that I’ve lived. It’s
so fucking abstract, this feeling. I don’t know how to describe it. Like my life
is different every day. Yesterday was a dream. Tomorrow is a theory. Today is
just an abstract idea.
