---
author: tjhoglund
entry: Oct. 26, 2016
layout: post
series: acmmin
tags: minutes school acm
title: ACM Meeting Minutes
---

1. Our plans for the ACM International Collegiate Programming Contest fell
   through. U of Minn – Twin Cities and Macalester were both closed to
   registration, and UW – La Crosse was determined to be too far away to travel
   (two and a half hours of driving) for this international programming contest.
   Marty Allen, pictured right, was nice enough to try to find room for us, but
   in the end we failed him. Don’t worry, I apologized to him already.
2. On a related note, MICS this year is at UW – La Crosse. The first round of
   testing was yesterday, there is another one on Thursday October
   27<sup>th</sup> at 5:00pm. If you would like to compete at MICS this year,
   and did not go to the testing yesterday, please go to this. It is mandatory
   if you intend to be on a UWRF team at MICS.
3. We have sort of wired internet! If anyone here is better at CAT5 crimping
   than whoever did this cable, help would be much appreciated. For some reason,
   we set up a switch and a DHCP server instead of a router, but something,
   something, more ports something, something, we can't be sure the DHCP on the
   router would propagate through the switch. There is still some setup to do.
   There are some pre-made cables around we may be able to use.
4. Arthur attended an AFAB meeting earlier today, successfully moving money from
   our advertising budget over to the supply budget. This will, theoretically,
   be used to buy chalk and a sticker to make a white board.
5. Now, we have a presentation about Innovation, supposedly up in the SH218 lab!
   Innovation! From AGS Data Systems up in Hudson: Derek [Last Name].
   1. The Big Ideas Tournament: Innovation Challenge, it's a multi-tier
      international competition that the UW System has been sponsoring
      participation in. UWRF has won the state competition for the past two
      years consecutively. The competition is meant to be a business incubator
      for ideas. It is not an incubator for ideas without commercial
      application, or commercial without a big new idea.
   2. So, we need a new method that encourages having ideas without forcing them
      to be capitalized. Perhaps an innovation competition or process that is
      not necessarily for starting a business. Encourage participation between
      multiple departments, focus on what you want to do in the discipline
      beyond the education.
   3. From an administrative standpoint: the curriculum has no room for great
      new ideas and innovation, but it is what students do out of the class that
      will shape them for the future. Classes don't entirely cover what students
      want to learn, they need structure to support them as they reach out
      beyond the classes. Students can benefit from support in infrastructure so
      they can focus on the project itself and not the funding.
   4. What are the barriers to people doing things now? How can we fix that? We
      need to continue to brainstorm on this going forward, we need to create a
      more creative environment, not just do one project here and there.
