---
author: tjhoglund
entry: Apr. 27, 2016
layout: post
series: acmmin
tags: minutes school acm
title: ACM Meeting Minutes
---

- "Welcome to Election 2016"
- Voting for Chair, Vice Chair, Treasurer, Secretary, Membership Officer, Lab
  Manager, Events Committee Chair, Communications Committee Chair
- Mark has been working on a ‘Ladder World’ website
  - The ladders DO NOT link to anything
- Vote for Communication Committee Chair:
  - 10/10 Justin Snell
- Vote for Events Committee Chair:
  - Nobody running? You can get a key to the locker! Still nobody? Will be
    filled by Vice Chair
- Vote for Lab Manager:
  - 10/10 Will/Stephen/Jarrett (Co-Lab Managers)
  - The power chart does not look good for the Lab Manager… whatever.
  - Could really have an entire committee... that reports to this manager
- Vote for Membership Officer:
  - Nobody is running....... You get to recruit people! Anybody? Please.
  - Motion to remove this positon. Deal with later.
- Vote for Secretary:
  - 10/10 Trevor Hoglund
- Vote for Treasure:
  - 10/10 Arthur Cyranowski
  - 0/10 Amin....
- Vote for Vice Chair:
  - Alex was nominated... seconded... there is nothing in the Bylaws about
    accepting nominations, but he does not accept.
  - 10/10 Mitch
- Vote for Chair
  - Nominated the black chair... seconded... running against Mark.
  - Mark plans to build a wall around DoTS, they will pay for it.
  - Mark answered emails in his last term.
  - Mark needs to use his energy, leading works for him.
  - Jarrett tilted the projector and according to our power chart the Secretary
    may run the
  - Workstation 10 was appointed.... seconded...
  - The chair has no response.
  - Workstation 10 has no response.
  - 6/10 Mark
  - 3/10 Chair
  - 1/10 Workstation 10
- Concluding the meeting. Ladder World will be great.
- Votes to allow vaping in the ACM room: 6/10, Against: 3/10, Abstaining: 1/10.
