---
author: una
layout: post
tags: politics
title: Praxis and the "Report from the Real Minority"
---

This report needs a real breakdown from an experienced political analyst that
isn't just some neoliberal corporate sellout, but as I'm me and I've not slept
in something like 24 hours now, I don't feel qualified to do this. However,
perhaps because I have not slept, or perhaps because I do believe it to be
necessary, I want to write a quick piece about the false idea of praxis that is
described in this "report."
{: .dropcap}

To set the scene here, we are living at the end of August, 2017, in the past
month there have been significant anti-racist counter-protests organized or
supported by DSA chapters and members, victims of the conditions in Houston have
been able to find shelter due to online communication (including a large push to
have Joel Osteen open the doors of his church), and well-known guards of the
Democratic Party have begun to finally shift towards the left. This all shows
two things:
1.  The DSA is comprised of many members with different ideas of praxis, a
    significant portion of whom have committed themselves to attending
    counter-protests knowing full well the potential of bodily harm or other
    consequences for themselves.
2.  Work that is done solely online is provably capable of effecting real
    change.

Fetonte's statements represent a view on praxis and organization in general that
we hip youths typically associate with the Old Guard. This being a perspective
of traditionalism, wherein an organization online does not count, one must
attend regular meetings, engage in physical confrontation regularly, speak in
front of large crowds, etc. in order to meet some arbitrary standard of a "real"
organization. There's a lot to be said about the appeal to procedure over the
will of the people as well, not to drag Momentum into this as well, but Fetonte
himself even seems to believe that by democratic principles of his election he
is owed something by the organization. Process is necessary, but this is not the
organization it was even two years ago, the old process was merely a theory for
possible situations, one in which we find ourselves, and it is clear that the
process has failed with the failure of the NPC to vote Fetonte out. (Shoutout to
[DSA Accountability](https://twitter.com/DSAAccntability) for working on some
new measures to ensure this incident is not repeated) Mindsets like this begin
to paint a fuller picture of the issue here, the belief that by the efforts of
one's past they are owed more than others. (This may border on me bashing on LTV
soon so, uhh, just know that I don't entirely agree with the Labor Theory of
Value) This continues later on in the "Report" when Danny describes issues he
believe there are with the "internet bullies" and "know it all's," he describes
how they have not been physically beaten or incarcerated for their beliefs and
as such are essentially all talk. Arguably, this perpetuates a toxic issue
amongst a lot of the left (one that is in a lot of ways supports by the media
and Democratic Party): thinking that praxis is like a point system where you
must participate for your ideology to be validated.

For starters, an action has no inherent value, the value of an action is
attributed to it by society. As we are talking about political praxis, this can
be expanded upon to say that the value here is not one of sentiment or economics
but in effected change. The value of praxis _is not_ how much it serves to boost
your ego, to raise you money, to convince others that you care, to prove that
your ideology is superior, the value of praxis _is purely_ based on its ability
to enact change. We do not live in the 20th century, praxis then is not
necessarily the same as it is now, both Fetonte and many centrists seem to share
this idea that DSA members are just "keyboard warriors" who cannot enact change
in the world because of this call to tradition. No, we live in the 21st century,
you can work online, you can buy online, you can congregate online, you can go
to school online, you can organize a political platform online, and you can damn
well effect change online. We have proof of this, we exist, the DSA as it is
exists in part because of our ability to communicate online, to organize and to
make things happen in the real world based on what we discuss online.

To further the point of praxis not being for personal gain, we act as a movement
for the good of society, individual praxis should mean nothing to us. Movements
like Antifa or Black Bloc bank on anonymity, because acting as an individual
serves only to push your personal beliefs onto the world, but acting as a
continuous movement serves the beliefs and needs of the people. What praxis was
done in the past does not matter to the praxis of today, experience is good as
it will help to ensure success, but this experience should not be one of the
individual but of the people just as the praxis itself. Do not flaunt what
you've done in the past, share it, teach others the lessons you learned, take
pride in the changes that were enacted, sure, but do not use them as weight in a
pointless argument, move past them and look to change the future.

Also, as a libertarian socialist (s/o to the [LSC](http://www.dsa-lsc.org/)) I
feel inclined to mention that we are not an electoral party, we are not the DNC
or the GOP, we must continue to focus on the actions of our local chapters. The
vertical hierarchy that Fetonte has assumed the NPC to represent must not be
allowed to exist, the rank-and-file members owe _nothing_ to the NPC but the NPC
owes _everything_ to the members.

I feel like this is turning into an unorganized rant, maybe that's fitting.
