---
author: redacted
hidden: true
layout: post
tags: blog depression self
title: The Childhood Fear of the Void
---

One night, when I was about ten (10) or so, I found myself laying on my bed,
just scared of it all. While that bed had originally been the top bunk of a bunk
bed I had shared with my younger brother, it had been moved across the room. I
think the carpet was blue, I'm sure there are pictures somewhere but I honestly
don't care that much and I don't think I ever will. I know for certain the bed
was made of these black metal bars, I remember clearly our first cat always
finding some way up to the top bunk and sticking her little head through the
bars as she slept. Perhaps my first memory of that bed was another night,
attempting to sleep, looking up at the top bunk when I was on the bottom,
choking, not being able to breath. I imagined some particles of something
falling from the top, coming down to choke me. Maybe there really was some dust
or something there, but given my mental state it could really go either way.
This all aside, where I had my bed then was on the other side of the room from
where it has been a bunk, above a vent. It wasn't like a good vent that was
actually connected to the whole system, it was just a hole to the basement.
{: .content__p_dropcap}

The basement was just a big empty, maroon, concrete void. Any sound would just
echo and eventually reach anyone near one of those vents. There were definitely
rats, rodents of some kind at least. We had shrews for sure, would find one dead
every few days laying in the kitchen just in front of the refrigerator. That
little cat that I originally was so scared of would murder them. Murder is the
most fitting word here, or maybe its slaughter. Kill even sounds too humane, she
is an interesting aspect of the whole ordeal that is my life. Some fairly rich
folks had a couple of cats, for sure one was a show cat, who cares about the
other, these cats had a litter. Now these rich people had to move for some
reason or another and they were to get rid of all the litter but one. That one
was the prettiest one they had, they intended to keep it, but they were unable
to keep her as well. So they gave her to one of their employees, who then gave
the cat to her mother, who was my fourth (?) grade teacher, and so the cat
landed with us. She's a very pretty cat, but at the time I was very against
animals in general. Sure, I would eventually warm up to her, but for now the
relevant factor is that she is a cat, and like many cats she enjoys the thrill
of the hunt, merely a sport in which she could attempt to keep the prey alive
for as long as possible. Maybe she would only do this when being watched, was it
all a ruse? I only ask because the dead rodents I would come across on those
fucking cold mornings because god damn Wisconsin, they were always completely
intact... perhaps this is a censor in my mind. But there were certainly plenty
of fucking creatures around, making noises, squeaking, scurrying, scuffling,
just making a whole racket.

I was raised Lutheran. My mother had been shifted between plenty of churches in
her youth and I think maybe my father was too, they did this before I was born
as well, it wasn't completely an ideological thing, it certainly wasn't a
spiritual one. They were looking for the sect they could stand being in, the
church whose members they could bear to talk to. I guess they could never accept
that the base nature of all sects is that they are filled with people who go to
church, and also they were in the fucking Midwest, the more you describe it the
more restrictive the whole thing becomes, there was any obvious limit to the
amount of types of people they would come across. I assume they only decided on
Lutheranism eventually since they were starting to have too many children to be
able to so simply uproot their religion. I don't think I ever really believed in
any of it.

They made me go to private school, not like a good private school either, see,
my dad had gone to college for computer engineering or some shit like that, he
eventually dropped out but he had some decent understanding in the field, and
made a living off of painting and construction sort of stuff as far as I can
tell. Though, when we lived out there in central Wisconsin he had some tech
stuff going. He did the IT stuff for the school I went to, I think that's how
they paid for my tuition, as well as both my siblings'. They gave me the option
to transfer to the public school later on, when I was heading in to sixth grade,
but that isn't relevant right now. Point is I had been raised under the
assumption that a god existed. My parents still push the idea of some sort of
afterlife on me, I think its just some coping mechanism on their part. I guess I
blindly followed up until that night, I never really had a reason to question it
so I didn't. But for some reason, I couldn't sleep, and as I lay there, in the
silence, the void spoke to me. It said nothing. It just echoed silence. So much
silence.

It was overwhelming, suddenly calling into question one's understanding of every
aspect of reality, to realize in youth that there is no such thing as a god, and
that death is the end, followed only by the void of nothingness. I would wish
not to dwell on this, and yet I would continue to. You would think that having
began this anguish so early I would come to accept the void, and I guess in a
way I did, that being in the conscious, but the subconscious still holds on to
that fear of death. Existentialism is something I could always handle in
conversation from then on, just joking about how nothing matters, none of it
needs to exist, yet on rare occasion, in times of particular despair, that
overwhelming feeling comes back. I could feel it in my flesh, a burning
sensation of loss of meaning, suddenly not wanting to handle the weight of
existence and its lack of meaning. Almost just accepting death if only to get it
over with while simultaneously fearing that I should ever have to experience it
for myself. And from that the only sane conclusion I could derive was that I
would one day learn to accept it in some older age, but that would not be yet.

When they asked if I would like to transfer to public school, I feigned the need
for some time to mull over the idea, yet it was already so concretely decided in
my mind: oh hell yes. The private school was small, a single hallway, two
classes to a room, the only licensed teacher was the principal. Didn't teach a
thing that fucking mattered. I failed fourth grade math. this is shocking to
those who watched me fucking decimate them in Calculus III senior year of high
school. I was always sick, I've got a lot of physical problems, this is shocking
to anyone that knows I haven't really seen a doctor in who knows how long, but
who is that on? As an adult I'm not going to take on responsibilities I'm not
used to when I can barely sustain things like eating. They had me take a test to
see if I should continue on with the being a year ahead in math and honestly I
fucking owned that test, they were all like "you can totally be in algebra" but
my parents thought that'd be too high a burden for me... ALGEBRA for fucks sake.
And they just let that shit slide.

In fifth grade, we were all really into Bionicles, customization and shit, some
real fun stuff, the girls were all into these pens that had bird heads on them,
the difference was that while we would play with out Bionicles between and after
classes, we would merely display them as some sort of monuments of superiority
on our desks during, the girls would play with their fucking pens during the
class. Anyway liberal's ideas of equality are great: the girls were banned from
having their pens in class and they argued that we should then not be allowed
our Bionicles, this stupid fucking argument was accepted and Bionicles were
banned in the classroom. No surprise, really, this is the school that banned
Star Wars trading cards because some girl sold a few for money. Oh no, children
learning the cruel reality of capitalism, damn. I would later find out they also
banned Pokemon cards because they were 'detracting from learning math' because a
game that requires basic arithmetic would undermine their ability to make basic
things look harder than they are. I actually found this out in seventh grade
from a kid who transferred out of that school to the public school I was then
attending.

If there were any positives of that school it'd maybe be that there was the
place of my first crush. I think her name was Taylor, it doesn't fucking matter,
this was like second grade or so. I do recall my parents, my mother, cracking
jokes about me having a crush on a girl. They would make this a thing about
basically any girl I mentioned in the future, so I would stop mentioning people
by name, since like the majority of friends I would have were girls, at least
through the end of high school.

That there public school had little of note. I got put in fun smart kid classes
where I found out smart kids are actually dumb kids too, especially when you're
in the middle of nowhere. I would top every school standard test, except this
one English one. I tested at a college level, but so did another kid. Cool,
cool. We weren't really friends. I didn't have a red pen once because it was
running low and I lent it to someone so when they didn't return it I was all
'whatever' because it'd likely be out of ink anyway... I told that story to two
different English teachers in seventh grade and one heard 'friend stole it'
while the other 'ran out of ink' so I got a pink slip. In sixth grade I got 117%
in English bc extra credit and I learned school was bullshit and reading books
only mattered as much as telling people you read books. Valuable lessons.
