---
author: una
description: >
    Oops! I wrote another thing about death! This time rather than picking apart
    traditional descriptions of death, I'm going to be introducing a more modern
    take on the whole idea.
layout: post
license: BY-SA
title: Death isn't real and neither are you
tags: death philosophy
---

For any of this to make sense, we're going to have to describe some basic
assumptions about the nature of reality, consciousness, and how the two
interact. Reality will be assumed to follow that which is described in the Many
Worlds Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics (MWI), or at least one interpretation
of that description. Here this means that all outcomes of a probabilistic system
exist in a superposition, that is to say that for every outcome of a situation
there exists a branching world wherein this is the outcome realized. For the
purposes of this discussion we will be talking about large, discrete steps in
time and very limited numbers of outcomes. Consciousness will be assumed to be
inherent in your existence and to span across these branching worlds as an
observer of each world. Observation will be the way in which we will define the
branching of worlds, such that worlds only exist if they can be observed by a
consciousness.
{: .content__p_dropcap}

One idea that I will leave unclear so as to leave room for further discussion is
the extent to which biology can dictate conscious observation. Observation can
be split by biology into sensation and perception; typically we only consciously
observe perception, but perception only exists as the filtration and
augmentation sensation. The brain must receive signals to process in order to
create a perception, but these do not necessarily exist to the conscious mind
and so can be argued to not be observed. Nonetheless, these signals dictate the
perception that is created and so can be said to be the base layer of which
perception is an abstraction. However, some interaction will need to be clearly
defined, specifically the idea of memory. While there is plenty to debate in
regards to whether an experience is truly valid if there is no memory of it that
can be accessed by the consciousness, in this case we will be assuming that any
experience which cannot be remembered will not exist in the reality defined by
said consciousness. It should also be made clear, for completeness, that memory
is stored in the brain, a physical entity that may exist in superposition across
multiple worlds but which can only act in a given world as a being in a singular
state.

A context is necessary to fully discuss the concept of death within, so a system
of timelines and superpositions will be defined. Any given state that can be
observed by a consciousness (i.e. a world) will be denoted
$\Psi_{\psi_1,\psi_2,\psi_3...}$, where $\psi_n$ is an index of the outcome of
the probabilistic decision $n$. This would mean that after some initial decision
our universe's state will be a superposition of $\Psi_1$, $\Psi_2$, $\Psi_3$,
etc. After the next decision along the timeline defined by $\Psi_1$, $\Psi_1$
will become a superposition of $\Psi_{1,1}$, $\Psi_{1,2}$, $\Psi_{1,3}$, etc.
This essentially defines an n-dimensional matrix of states derived from a
singular origin point which we will refer to as $\Psi_0$. As previously
mentioned, consciousness spans parallel/simultaneous worlds, we will define each
discrete step in time as the creation of a new decision such that all states
which are denoted with a given number of subscripts will exist simultaneously.
Since $\Psi_0$ evolves into the superposition of states $\Psi_{\psi_1}$ for all
values of $\psi_1$ and the conscious observer after the first discrete step in
time spans all states $\Psi_{\psi_1}$, it can be said that this consciousness
encompasses all that is yielded from $\Psi_0$ when time acts upon it.
Furthermore, any state $\Psi_{\psi_1}$ will evolve into a superposition of all
states $\Psi_{\psi_1,\psi_2}$ after the second step in time (for convenience we
can refer to this as $t=2$), at which point the conscious observer will span all
that is yielded from any state $\Psi_{\psi_1}$ when time acts upon it. These
ideas combined suggest that consciousness defined in this matter will experience
all possible outcomes propagated from $\Psi_0$; this can be considered a
deterministic system.

What it means to experience, or observe an experience, must also be discussed.
This is essentially the question of "if a tree falls in the woods and nobody is
around to hear it, did it fall?" Given that we have defined a world as that
which is observed by the consciousness, the answer to this is simple: no. Any
event that has no means by which to be observed by our observer does not exist.
It may be beneficial to view the "observer" as the portion of the consciousness
that is present in the timeline being observed here. This idea must also be
expanded into the concept of remembering experiences. If an experience cannot be
remembered, did it happen? Of course, in this instance, we're viewing memory as
a true record of happenings, which is not necessarily true. However, if an event
cannot be remembered, it may still have left an impact on reality that would
encode information about the event having happened that can be retrieved by some
means which we will for the time being consider remembering said event. So if
even with this loose definition of remembrance an event cannot be remembered, it
can be said to not have happened at all.

Finally, we can discuss the effects of death in this system. Let us take the
observer in the state $\Psi_{1,1}$ as an example. This observer is nothing more
than a single state in the superposition with all other states
$\Psi_{\psi_1,\psi_2}$ as per our definitions, but is still functionally a
person that is experiencing life. If this observer dies as it reaches the third
decision ($\Psi_{1,1,\psi_3}\$), then what effect does this have on the
consciousness of which this observer is a state? All states at $t=3$ are still
states of the consciousness, but in some states (let's simplify this down just
to the individual state $\Psi_{1,1,1}$) there is no longer an observer allowing
the consciousness to experience the associated timeline. As such, the world in
$\Psi_{1,1,1}$ and subsequently all worlds stemming from it when $t\gt3$
($\Psi_{1,1,1,\psi_4,\psi_5,...}$) cease to exist. Consciousness continues to
exit, however, spanning the superposition of states $\Psi_{1,1,\psi_3\neq1}$
(assuming that no other observers have died). This process will occur at any
decision wherein an observer dies, until there is no longer any available
observers of the consciousness, at which point the universe as defined by the
consciousness ceases to exist as a whole.

Lived experience is less simple to describe since we do not have a thorough
understanding of how the consciousness is linked to these observers. It is
possible that the experience of one observer continues on, becoming an observer
that has not died. In the previous example, this would mean that the observer
that would have experience the state $\Psi_{1,1,1}$ would instead experience
some state $\Psi_{1,1,\psi_3\neq1}$, in this example we will assume this to be
state $\Psi_{1,1,2}$. Since experience requires continuous access to memory (as
previously discussed one cannot experience that which one cannot remember) this
observer would not experience its own death but continue living as if it were
the observer in the timeline of $\Psi_{1,1,2,\psi_4}$ since $t=3$. That is to
say that the observers within the consciousness will never experience their own
death, continuing to shift from timeline to timeline to avoid doing so until
the consciousness itself ceases to exist.

Who are you, then? Are you the consciousness? Are you a single observer? We tend
to describe ourselves as our minds and bodies, something that physically exists,
something that can die. But if the previous ideas are correct, then your
consciousness will not always be in that mind and body that we consider you to
be, it may never experience the death of that body.
