---
author: una
description: >
    A discussion on the idea that shoplifting has an effect on the employees of
    the store against which it is done.
layout: post
license: ZERO
tags: economics
title: "Does Shoplifting 'Hurt' Workers?"
---

*This post is also available on
[Steemit](https://steemit.com/money/@trewbot/does-shoplifting-hurt-workers)*
{: .no-indent}

There is a certain idea that pops up in the discourse every few months (at
least for me it is only so often, perhaps for some it is more common) and it
never fails to amaze me with the amount of cultural support for capital models
it indicates. The idea to which I'm referring here, as indicated by the title,
is that shoplifting from businesses hurts workers rather than the company. To do
this more or less properly, let's begin with a hypothesis: a single action of
shoplifting from a corporation owned retail store has no direct effects on the
wages and treatment of the employees at said retail store. We're going to ignore
the oddly common phrasing of "minimum wage workers" that is used where we've
simply said "employees" as this is merely meant to conjure up the notion that
the workers affected are those at the lowest rank within the corporate
structure.
{: .dropcap}

Given that this is a response to arguments that state that theft does have a
negative impact on workers, it is likely best to approach this as with a proof
by contradiction[^1] wherein we assume that the opposite of our hypothesis is
true and show that in order to prove it we would have to assume ideas are true
that are actually false. There are two methods by which we could prove this:
finances and punishment.

[^1]:   Writing proofs by contradiction doesn't make you a "nerd" if said proofs
        are about stealing shit. This is objective fact. No, I don't have to
        prove that to you.

The rationale with respect to finances is that stealing from a company creates a
loss that is taken directly from the worker's wages or some hypothetical bonus
pool that the worker would potentially earn if it is not used to cover said
loss. In order for this to be true we have to assume that whatever company is in
question here has no method of handling losses such that they do not affect the
overall revenue of their business. That is to say that this company is either
unaware of or deliberately avoiding any methods by which they could create a
buffer between sales and profits. However, companies are motivated by the
preservation of profits to employ any such methods of which they are aware, so
we can logically conclude that they would not _deliberately_ avoid these methods
and can therefore assume that any company not employing such methods would be
either unaware of the methods or due to various factors unable to implement
them. Retaining focus on the former possibility here, we are confronted with the
question of whether or not it is reasonable to assume that a company is unaware
of potential methods of avoiding direct impact of losses on profits. We can once
again assume that the preservation of profits incentivizes the company to seek
out such methods, the only reason for the opposite here being that the company
is either ignorant to the fact that theft is a possibility (or even a
probability) or are aware of theft but do not see it as something that would cut
into profits. The latter idea here runs contrary to the idea of theft affecting
worker solely from a financial perspective and theoretically from a social
perspective as well (if the company is not suffering from theft then there is no
reason for employees to do so), but we will come back to it when discussing the
concept of punishment as the allowance of theft even when there is no suffering
lends itself to a greater cultural perception that theft is not an issue. The
former, however, assumes that the company is not aware of theft as a potential
problem and therefore reacts to its occurrence as it happens. We may concede at
this point that there are potentially some companies that are oblivious to the
possibility of theft and may act in this way, but if we are to consider any
given act of theft it is likely not the first act of theft to occur at whichever
company it happens to be against. If, after subsequent occurrences, a company is
_still_ unaware of this possibility, then functionally speaking this is no
different then when a company determines that theft is not an issue as they are
in this situation unaware of the issue. However, if we are to maintain that the
sort of theft we are concerned about here is that against "big business", i.e.
corporations, then we can reasonably assume that they are fully aware that theft
is something that will likely occur within their stores.

A reason for why we may confidently state that corporations will virtually
always be aware of theft is the existence of what is called "Loss Prevention."
Loss Prevention is a concept that exists to encompass the whole of how companies
can handle losses, be it external theft (shoplifting), internal theft, or
operational errors. The existence of this is indicative of company's knowing
about theft as it is a standard facet of business administration. Acknowledging
it also allows us to return to the previously unfinished point that companies
may choose to not follow through on methods of buffering loss from profit due to
incapability. Typical loss prevention methodology dictate there exist staff
whose exclusive role is ensuring that shoplifting is prevented, this staff is a
security force who, depending on applicable laws, will observe customers and
detain them if there is reason to believe they unlawfully moved merchandise past
a point of sale. Because this is a separate staff, there must be some budgeting
to cover their wages[^2], that is to say that the company _must spend_ money to
ensure that they do not lose money to external theft. This becomes a good
indicator of an idea we ought to consider in a broader sense: companies must
budget under the assumption that theft exists. It's important to be specific
that they are budgeting in such a manner because by acknowledging that they must
budget we can also point to the fact that budgeting is entirely based on
projected revenue rather than actual. Both wages and loss prevention measures
are determined before the actual work takes place at the beginning of some
defined budget period.

[^2]:   This is not entirely limited to wages as (a) it will also in some cases
        cover the cost of equipment and (b) the staff can be outsourced to a
        security company that specializes in loss prevention as is often the
        case.

It is at this point that we would benefit from putting ourselves in the shoes of
this corporation as it is creating this budget. We have predicted expenses for
wages based on our current workforce (perhaps including some projected increases
for raises as well as any new employees hired on during the period) for both the
sales staff and the loss prevention staff. It is common practice, based on this
budget to predetermine the hours that will be made available to workers, taking
in account the reviews of each worker as well as their hourly wages. However, we
know that there is statistically likely to be some amount of merchandise lost to
what is called "shrink" (the internal/external theft and operational errors we
had mentioned earlier). The loss prevention staff is intended to reduce this
shrink as much as possible, but that possibility is heavily dependent on how
much we budget towards them. This is due to their ability to prevent loss being
typically correlated to the amount of training they receive (which costs money)
as well as the amount of staff we can have at any given time. If we reduce this
loss prevention staff's budget we can therefore expect more shrink, but if we
raise their budget we will expect less shrink. This is then an optimization
problem, how much do we spend on the staff versus how much do we expect as
shrink during this budget period. Because we are including this predicted loss
in this manner, it is more aptly described as an expense included in the budget
than as a loss of profit. That is to say that we do not count shrink as a loss
in profits _up to a given point._ Furthermore, because the aforementioned point
is reliant on the company's analysis used in optimizing the budget between loss
prevention and shrinkage, the company necessarily must ensure that the projected
shrink is as accurate as possible. Assuming that the methods used to predict
this are indeed accurate, any given act of shoplifting must then be predicted at
the beginning of the budgeting period. In essence, a single act of shoplifting
within a corporate store, assuming that corporation employs some manner of loss
prevention, would be already accounted for in the same budget that set forth the
amount of wages to be paid out to workers within that budget period.

Now, of course, we can ask questions along the line of: "if shrink is accounted
for to begin with, why do managers still yell at employees for allowing
shoplifting to happen?" In a sense, this calls back to the optimization problem
we had previously discussed. While there is staff that specializes in loss
prevention and is paid accordingly (often more than the sales staff), it would
be beneficial for the company to distribute the duties of loss prevention to
other staff members that are paid less (such as the sales staff) so as to
increase the amount of workers on shift at any given time that are capable of
preventing shoplifting. This would entail training workers that are not
necessarily loss prevention staff; however, if these workers are fully trained
to carry out loss prevention duties, then what reason would they have to keep
their current position as opposed to move to a position (at the same company or
elsewhere) within the higher paying loss prevention staff? This then becomes a
matter of determining how to ensure an employee acts in an intended way without
training them to act in that specific manner. The general answer to which leads
us into the second of the two methods by which I said the hypothesis could be
proved: punishment.

Whereas while discussing financial motivations we can easily rely on concepts
such as incentivization, social motivations are slightly more abstract and thus
more complex. As previously mentioned, a company may seek to have sales staff
work as loss prevention. These sales staff workers cannot fully act as loss
prevention as they are neither trained nor specialized in that work, and so they
can only observe and report any suspected shoplifting. As this goes beyond the
standard expectation of sales staff there is need to incentivize such workers to
actually take on the work. However, to reward workers for catching shoplifters
would contradict the point of using said workers as it would be investing more
of the budget into loss prevention, as well as creating an incentive for false
flags or something of that effect. To that end, it is more sensible from the
perspective of the company to punish failure to act in the case of shoplifting.
Typically, there is some legal protections in place that would keep a company
from being able to dock wages or fire workers for failing to fulfill a duty well
outside the expectations of a retail worker, i.e. stopping someone from stealing
(which is typically considered too dangerous for workers to do regardless), and
so the company will need to either settle for reprimanding the worker in
question or invent some other means by which to essentially scare workers into
stopping theft. Sometimes this latter idea comes in the form of a mythical bonus
that is to be paid out to workers at the end of the budget period, _but_ any
losses due to theft (either external or internal can be done with this) would be
subtracted from the pool from which the bonus would be paid. The company, as
previously discussed, is already aware of the approximate figure they will lose
to shrink, and so can easily promise the money attributed to covering that loss
without fear of actually having to pay it out.

Of course, these methods of punishing employees for theft, whether there is any
actual theft or not, have the further effect of creating a culture among the
workers that is motivated to attempt to reduce shoplifting. Such a culture is
extremely beneficial as it would weed out any uncertain potential shoplifters,
typically by way of these workers shaming people for shoplifting based on the
punishments created by the company. The issue then becomes that this culture is
heavily reliant on the myth that shoplifting has negative effects on these
workers, but if they were to realize that this is, in fact, a myth, then the
cultural notion that shoplifting hurts the low-level employees would eventually
fade. Without that notion then there would be a potential increase in external
or even internal theft (I would go out on a limb here to say it would be the
ladder mostly), which would force companies to attribute higher portions of
their budget to loss prevention and projected shrink.

---
