---
author: una
hidden: true
layout: post
license: BY-SA
tags: blog self
title: An Absurd Temptation
---

It's been increasingly difficult to describe my emotions in words as they slowly
become more and more nuanced. A significant contributor to this is that I've
never really tried to express myself as I actually feel rather than a filtered
form of myself, which probably influenced the near uselessness of the short
while I had a therapist a while back. It's always much easier to build on a
notion that someone already has, like an archetype, than to develop a full
description from scratch, and I've always bought into this temptation. However,
over time I have begun to find a method of describing myself that to some extent
feels right. This is still, as most things, built on ideas with which I'd assume
others would already be familiar.
{: .content__p_dropcap}

There's a lot of literature and discussion about this idea of consciousness as
some sort of observer of the actions of the self, like there are parts of the
mind that are actively involved in life and others that are merely watching. I
feel for this idea insofar as I relate to the latter in an extreme. I never
feel as if there is _any_ part of me that is the "pilot" and that "I" am merely
an observer of reality as it plays out. It's as if the world is something that
happens to me rather than something in which I partake. Of course, the exact way
this manifests philosophically for me is very much influenced by the world I do
live in, particularly with regards to the medium of observation. Traditionally
I've been quite wary of viewing myself as some protagonist in a book as tempting
as that may be. The issue with such an outlook is that it ignores the wills of
others and that is still something I refuse to compromise on in my worldview.
However, the idea of myself in the context of a story still remains, just that
the story is not one of any person in particular but that of the progression of
time itself, something that would be terrible in the creation of a story as it
is so vague and unorganized no audience would ever willingly subject themselves
to it, but the absurdity of reality is that we do not have that choice.

Regardless of the exact center of the narrative, life has arcs, episodes if you
will. Often many such segmentations of time overlap, but nonetheless the
structure remains. Relationships begin and end, you find and quit jobs, seasons
come and go, we seek out structure in time. This then begins the core of the
issue with my mood.

College was narratively rough for me. In high school I had taken advantage of a
system by which I could take college courses not offered by the school at a
nearby university. I took a few such classes, met a few people, establishes a
mental map of the campus and its relation to the life I already had established.
With the end of high school there would normally be a severe break in the
narrative of life. High school is like a series arc, there are seasons and plots
within it but it represents a whole framing of life that ends with graduation.
While I had applied at a few other universities, in the end the only one at
which I was accepted was that same college that I had already woven into a past
narrative of my life. As such there was no break in my life between high school
and college, but a short transitional period. Financial aid covered my tuition
but wasn't enough to cover room and board, therefore I remained at my parents'
house with the twenty minute commute I had already lived with for those few
classes in high school. The end of this college age was equally unclean. Due to
my lack of motivation to engage with a lot of the activities required of me, I
ended up failing out of college after three semesters. I'd decided that I would
just let this happen rather than appeal, I'd moved out to an apartment just
across from campus for that third semester and figured I could use some time off
there to get myself together. This ended up being the opposite of how things
played out and I ended up back at my parents'. Needing a break from living with
them I ended up filing an appeal and returning for another semester, but having
not really figured my shit out I failed out once again.

This framing arc of my life being a complete mess is something that would in
theory be completely bearable. The theory breaks down when this arc is put in
the broader context: nothing happened after it. I've just been managing to
survive since then, slowly growing away from everyone I knew as life just sort
of moves on without me. I've had places to stay, I've had food to eat, I've
managed to survive. Most recently, I found my way to living nearby another
college (one that I'd applied to but was waitlisted not once but twice). In the
end this is nothing more than a "I fucked up and now there's salt in the wounds"
sort of situation, but mocking my own perspective as simple and even typical
does nothing to alleviate the fact that I must still live it.

Or must I?

The phrasing "fail out" is a bit of a simplification of what actually happens.
In both financial aid and registration there is an idea of Satisfactory Academic
Progress (SAP), the ideas are often synonymous between the two systems but just
as often have minor differences. In the case that these are not of the same
standard, there is a possibility that one qualifies to receive federal aid but
not to remain in attendance. I'm not sure this is an applicable situation;
however, what is applicable is the way this idea is handled when you no longer
meet the requirements for SAP: in the eyes of student aid you must now find some
way of paying tuition yourself, in the eyes of registration you are no longer
allowed to attend classes. Ignoring the former as there are many potential
solutions there, the latter presents a massive problem. Academic suspension can
be appealed, but if you appeal it and are then returned to it as I have there is
a more severe roadblock in that you must wait two years before reapplying for
attendance. Reapplying is a key point here, this is about going back to the same
university. Which then brings me to another point... is it possible to transfer
to another university while technically on academic suspension?

This is the absurd temptation that taunts me, there's an admissions office to an
R1 university within walking distance of me. But what can I do? After five years
they'll scrub any failing grades from your transcript and I'd assume this would
also apply to suspensions, but I don't want to wait another four and a half
years to get back to something that I don't even really enjoy. Undergraduate
school sucks ass, it's like High School++, though it is still a requirement to
get to graduate school which I would be currently attending had I not went and
failed out. What would I even have to do to get them to overlook all these
glaring issues on my record? I don't know, but that would be something to
discuss with an admission (or transfer?) office. And so the path forward becomes
this: go and beg for a way in, perhaps not even a way in here but one that could
be used elsewhere as well.
