---
author: una
description: >
    There is a book in the forest just outside of town. It's an old legend.
image: /assets/img/htbbangb.jpg
lang: en
layout: post
license: BY-NC-SA
replace_title: true
tags: >
    fantasy fiction short-story
title: How To Be Broken and Never Get Better
---

There is a book in the forest just outside of town. It's an old legend, the 
kind that kids would spread around as they played in the fields, one having 
heard it from their grandmother and quickly infecting the rest. Each child's 
parents would shake their heads at the nonsense; magic may certainly be real, 
but such ancient tomes are reserved for the libraries of court mages and royal 
academies rather. If there really were a text rotting away in the woods, known 
to all the residents of the village, someone ought to have collected it by now 
and filed it away somewhere far more important than here.
{:.content__p_dropcap}

Far too old for childish rumors, Cecilia hasn't even heard the story since she 
was the age of the children lined up on the top of the fence, sitting with 
their legs dangling above the summer grass as they gossiped. "Just grow up," 
she mumbles to herself, charging past the group.
{:.content__p_noindent}

For those youths, the sight of a depressing twenty-something blowing past them 
with a hood over her eyes and an aura of gloom spilling from her small and 
frail body into her surroundings was nothing of real note. Even her comments 
would go in one ear and out the other, her type was in no short supply these 
days.

How long has it been since a resident of this little village has done anything 
of note? A decade? Two? Half a century? Yet, the elders still cling onto hope 
that someone will soon put this place back on the map. The local lord humors 
them without ever really investing in their words, even without grand tales the 
place is doing alright in his eyes. The farms still produce, exports never 
lulled, shops still keep full stock, and the taxes are short but no more so 
than any other town of his domain. It is, for better or worse, a completely 
forgettable locale.

Every generation has its knights and magicians, those who leave to somewhere 
more extravagant and make a name for themselves among the ranks of a hundred 
other names. Their documents may say they hail from Altbirk, but all simply 
claim the whole of the Fruchthügel domain as their home.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Recently, many are growing sick of the dreams. If all is fine, then what does 
it matter? If there's food on the table, then who cares if people three days' 
travel away know? However, some can't help the feeling, it's very human to want 
to mean something to the world. Affairs may be in order today, but tomorrow is 
unpredictable and foreign. This sort of pressure is clear to those whose lives 
are not as idyllic as those of the more outspoken residents seem to be.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Cecilia is in that sort of position. Being unmarried, she still lives in her 
parents' house where she is now heading after half a day of yard work for her grandfather. Her father was one of those who had left, the village's champion 
of swords, now a wounded ex-soldier in a glorified shed.

"I'm home," she grumbles while kicking her work boots off at the door, careful 
to keep her feet off the exposed ground that comprised the entryway all the 
while.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Her mother looks up from the large pot she's been stirring over the fire pit in 
the middle of the house's one room. One could easily mistake the two women here 
as twins, sharing the same dark brown hair and tired brown eyes set in equally 
pale skin. "Welcome back," she says, pausing while looking directly at Cecilia. 
The look on her face is filled with some sort of expectation, as if Cecilia is 
supposed to know what to do next. Then, giving up on waiting for a response, 
she continues: "how did the work go?"
{:.content__p_noindent}

"Alright," Cecilia states in monotone, dragging out the vowels of the lone 
word while walking over to the chipped wooden table by the door. She sets two 
small copper coins down, their chipped and bent forms causing them to rattle 
for a moment despite how lightly they were placed. Her mother, named Celia to 
further confuse anyone attempting to distinguish her from Cecilia, continued 
her nearly blank stare at her daughter. With a roll of her eyes, Cecilia slaps 
a third coin atop the previous two, shaking the whole table with the force.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Celia's eyes show a glint of pride, as if to say it's a mother's intuition when 
a child is keeping secrets. Of course, that would be a lie, she knew how much 
the day's pay would be from the start. "Okay," she speaks meekly despite her 
internal contempt, returning to stirring what looks like a stew of only water 
if not for a few small rough cubes of potato bobbing in the waves.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Dragging her feet and letting out an obvious sigh, Cecilia continues into the 
home, followed by the creaking of floorboards as she makes way to one of the 
two beds against the back wall. A lump of patches called a blanket, maybe a 
quilt if not for its lack of filling, stirs in the other bed as she approaches.

"That you, Cecilia?" a voice barely winning against the breeze asks.
{:.content__p_noindent}

"Hi, father," the surprisingly chipper, even to its owner, voice of Cecilia 
responds. She clears her throat a bit before continuing, "wake me up when 
dinner's ready, okay?"
{:.content__p_noindent}

Short exchanges like this are the norm in this family nowadays. Cecilia, tired 
from the little work she did in the day, flops onto her straw mattress and the 
conversations are over. She rolls into a ball while pulling her blanket over, 
achieving the closest semblance of privacy she can have here. Before settling 
down for the nap she implied she would be taking, she first addresses the 
something that now bothers her from the preceding interactions.

Reaching back into the pocket of her jacket, she pulls out the last of the four 
coppers she'd been paid, glancing only briefly at it before abruptly shoving it 
back into its hidden home. The labor was certainly not worth four whole coins, 
even the three agreed upon when Celia asked the old man to give her daughter 
some work was a stretch. Nonetheless, Rick was willing to dig deeper into his 
retirement funds to support his granddaughter, knowing the life Cecilia is 
living now.
{:.content__p_noindent}

At one point, she was one of those slated for greatness, someone who would 
leave for greater places and grace her family with the riches she earned beyond 
the fields here. Her father had been a knight, despite only having a daughter, 
he wanted to pass on his skills and had Cecilia trained in the ways of the 
sword from a young age.

Skills seemed to come naturally to her, easily beating out the sons of the town 
guard to claim the title of the upcoming champion. Magic, too, was a breeze for 
her. As a party of adventurers had come through town to handle a quest in the 
nearby woods, their mage had sparked Cecilia's interest. That mage taught her 
the basics of controlling magic and a few spells to get her started. It was 
clear to any onlooker, but the young girl was oblivious to the assumptions the 
man had made about her interests. She only saw him as a teacher, not a lover, 
but the misunderstanding lasted for that whole summer as she followed him 
around to observe his skills and nothing more. The way the sparkle in her eyes 
died when that man's offer was not to take her as an apprentice, not to 
recommend her to a school of magic, but to have her as his bride; the green of 
her eyes turned to gray that day. After all, her first love had already come 
and gone by then. She was in no place to see a man, one so many years her 
senior at that, in such a light.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Watching the person she thought to be her teacher turn so miserable just as he 
departed from her life forever stained the world a bit darker. His party 
members held him up as they walked down the road out of town, the sun set 
behind them, and the golden light of the world was replaced with darkness. The 
teenage Cecilia could barely cry that night, her emotions confused and brain 
scattered. Her path forward was lost.
{:.content__p_noindent}

"...Lia!" A voice breaks into her dreams, shouting a familiar nickname from a 
familiar voice. "Cecilia, dinner's ready!" Her mother's voice becomes clearer, 
it isn't the voice she had just heard, but familiar nonetheless.

"Alright, alright, I hear you," she grumbles while pushing her mother away from 
the edge of her bed. Celia lowers her arm as she steps away to wake up her 
husband as well. _Was she about to hit me?_ Cecilia asks herself, not convinced 
she was sleeping deeply enough to warrant such extreme measures. It's been 
quite a few years since she could sleep that well.
{:.content__p_noindent}

The three of them sit at the table near the entrance, each with a bowl of 
watery potatoes. There seems to be an attempt at some seasoning, at least, some 
sort of garden weed sprinkled liberally into the soup. They sip from wooden 
spoons in silence, until Celia makes a start at conversation:

"So, do you have any plans for working tomorrow?" She looks toward Cecilia.
{:.content__p_noindent}

"Not really."
{:.content__p_noindent}

"Well, that was the last of the work Rick had for you..." she trails off as she 
turns towards her husband.
{:.content__p_noindent}

"Oh, uh, well it was nice of my father to hire you, since I can't really work 
anymore..." he, too, trails off, unsure of what he's expected to add to the 
talk. "Maybe you could talk to Elizabeth's family? You two always seemed so 
close and with her out of town they might need someone to help run the shop. 
That might be a bit more stable for&mdash;"
{:.content__p_noindent}

"I can't," Cecilia cuts him off abruptly. She dumps the rest of the lukewarm 
food liquid down her throat and stands up with a slam of the bowl. "Thanks for 
the food." She hurries out of the house, barely slipping her boots onto her 
feet as she swings the door open.
{:.content__p_noindent}

_Why did he have to bring_ her _up?_ She marches down the road with an even 
heavier gloom than earlier, kicking at scattered rocks with a sigh. _Why now?_ 
In truth, Cecilia had spoken to Elizabeth's family recently, it's hard not to 
around here when they run the general store. They had told her about a letter 
they'd received, a letter about their daughter returning home to celebrate her 
recent engagement. Oblivious to how inconsiderate it may be, they had even 
invited her to the party.

Her father was right, the two of them were close at one point. Both were girls 
around the same age; in a small town like Altbirk, it's natural for them to 
have been childhood friends. They'd always be together and do everything 
together, inseparable playmates. That's how they were for nearly a decade, 
until Cecilia pushed the relationship too far and Elizabeth pulled away as far 
as she could.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Just thinking of it in so little detail is enough to make Cecilia want to curl 
up and scream at herself, settling for pulling her hood down lower. Her footing 
loses some stability, but she continues on. Everyone was so happy when 
Elizabeth set off to study magic in the city, conveniently less than a week 
after Cecilia had let it slip she wanted to be something more than friends. 
When did she lose the ability to fake a smile like she did that day? A smile so 
convincing that everyone thinks they're still friends. She's not since seen nor 
heard from the girl she once affectionately called "Liz." The 
thought of hearing a man speak that name in front of her, of trying to maintain 
her composure in front of half the village, sends a violent shiver down her 
spine.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Yet, here she is, standing in front of the general store, Elizabeth's house. It 
really is unavoidable.
{:.content__p_noindent}

"Have fun! And don’t go too far," a voice calls out in the distance. It’s now 
that Cecilia notices a group of boys, none could be older than 10, heading out 
with kitchen knives and arrows for bows fashioned from sticks and string, one 
of them holding a shovel and a bucket. Skipping along, chatting and laughing 
among themselves, cheerfully asking each other things like "what are you going 
to wish for when we find the magic book?" A lofty goal for a group of small 
children setting off to play at being adventurers in the twilight. Cecilia paid 
them no mind. She knows the stories of the book, she doesn't know or 
particularly care what kind of magic was contained in the book, or if it could 
grant wishes. She has nothing left to wish for. Then, she opens the door to the 
shop.

"Good evening," the shopkeeper welcomes her in a soft voice. A short man with 
graying hair and a beige apron stands at a wooden counter. "The usual?"
{:.content__p_noindent}

"The usual," Cecilia replies quietly. 
{:.content__p_noindent}

The man pulls a small tin off the shelves behind him. "Can you pay?" he asks as 
he hands over the tin.
{:.content__p_noindent}

"I have a copper." She places the coin on the counter, giving the man a 
regretful look.
{:.content__p_noindent}

"Just the one?" He chuckles a bit, but stops as he looks at her face. "Well, 
we're settled as far as I'm concerned. You should take some bread while you're 
here," he nods toward a basket holding a few buns at the end of the counter. 
{:.content__p_noindent}

"Oh, no, I couldn't..."
{:.content__p_noindent}

"Well, I was just about to close up shop, so if you don't take them they'll 
just go to waste. You'd be doing me a favor, so please just take them off my 
hands."
{:.content__p_noindent}

"Okay, alright, I'll take them." She grabs a couple of the buns, trying to 
hold them both in one hand before hesitantly deciding to shove them in her 
pocket and grabbing a third. "Thanks, Tod."
{:.content__p_noindent}

"Anytime, Lia." He responds with something she really doesn't need to hear 
right now. _Fuck, I want to die._ She swallows any start at a verbal response 
and simply nods as she ducks back out of the building.
{:.content__p_noindent}

The pale gray of the gravel road is bathed in the red light of the low sun, the 
shadows of the buildings long enough to cover one another. Cecilia keeps 
walking toward the sun, away from the dreary house she can't even bear to call 
home anymore. Before long, she's at the edge of town, nothing but fields and 
forest beyond this point.

The road ends here, a low stone wall blocking off a field of golden wheat. Just 
a bit off the road along this wall, there's a lone tree growing right up 
against the stones, a spot where Cecilia comes to get away from everyone quite 
often. It's there that she hops atop the wall to gaze out into the sea of grain 
waving in the breeze. As she catches the last glimpse of the evening sun 
filtering through the trees in the distance, a single thought echoes through 
her mind: _I need to get out of here._
{:.content__p_noindent}

She chuckles at what must be the most optimistic phrase to have occurred to her 
in a while, pulling a single cigarette out of the case she just bought. Magic, 
apparently unable to save her from a tragic life in this hellhole, can at least 
be useful at times like this. A small flame pops out of her finger with a snap, 
it flickers in the wind until she shields it with her other hand. A magic flame 
wouldn't be put out by a small breeze, it's just a habit of hers to treat it as 
she would a match, right down to the wrist shake to put it out.
{:.content__p_noindent}

_I need to stop coming here._ She reminisces a bit about what this spot used to 
mean. The privacy it now lends exclusively to her sulking had once been shared 
with Liz, the two of them sitting here together and talking about who knows 
what for hours on end. _I'm such an idiot._
{:.content__p_noindent}

Slouching against the trunk behind her, she lets the smoke of her cigarette 
lead her gaze up to the stars now fading into view between the sparse clouds. 
_It's fall already, huh?_ Reading the stars was a hobby of hers, something she 
picked up in her magical studies. Of course, the red leaves of the tree above 
her were a more obvious sign, at least until the grayness of the night 
swallowed them. _It's going to get cold._ Her parents' house is definitely not 
built for winter, but maybe the demand for firewood can earn her some amount of 
money. Without really investing herself in the thought of the oncoming season 
change, she drifts off to sleep again.
{:.content__p_noindent}

"Aren't you cold?" Again, her sleep is interrupted.

"Huh?" Still half asleep, she can barely make out the figure of the man 
standing behind her as she tilts her head in his direction. _Shit._ The moment 
her eyes clear up, she realizes that she knows this blonde pretty-boy. "Oh."
{:.content__p_noindent}

"'Oh?' We haven't seen each other in years and that's all? Haha." Jean was once 
a member of Cecilia's party, back when she had one. He's 6'4" and more muscle 
than brain, but a charismatic leader nonetheless. From the looks of the group a 
bit further behind him, his charisma was enough to keep the party together to 
this day. _Shit, fuck, of course they're all here._
{:.content__p_noindent}

"Cut me some slack, I just woke up. So... what're you doing all the way out 
here?" Try as she might, Cecilia can't fake a smile. Not sounding adversarial 
is about all she can manage nowadays.
{:.content__p_noindent}

She begins sitting up, patting all the morning dew off of her jacket as Jean 
responds: "We took a quest a couple towns south of here, a few ogres 
terrorizing the locals and all that. Figured we'd spend the night here and rest 
up on the way."
{:.content__p_noindent}

"Ah, yeah, a quest, of course. That makes sense." Now fully awake, Cecilia hops 
off the wall to stand in front of Jean. His height makes her look all the 
shorter with her mere 5'2" stature.
{:.content__p_noindent}

"You passing through as well?"
{:.content__p_noindent}

The question makes her pause, realizing just how little her former comrades 
really knew about her. "Something like that, yeah." _God, this is awkward._
{:.content__p_noindent}

"Aha, I see!" _Does he really?_ "We were just going to get some breakfast 
before heading out if you want to join us and catch up, my treat!"
{:.content__p_noindent}

Free food is quite tempting, but this offer is going to have to be one that 
Cecilia turns down. Her attention turns to one of the adventurers in the 
distance waiting on Jean to finish his conversation: a beautiful woman clinging 
onto her mage staff as keeps her gaze focused on the ground. That girl that had 
once called Cecilia "a terrible wizard and a worse girlfriend." Cecilia, always 
needing to have the last word, had responded "actually, I'm a spellsword." That 
was the last they'd spoken, before Cecilia bailed on everyone with some half 
thought out excuse. "Adelaide..." _Why did I say that out loud!?_
{:.content__p_noindent}

Jean turns to look towards his companions. "Oh yeah, Addy's here! I'm sure 
she'd love to hear about how your solo adventures have been go&mdash;"
{:.content__p_noindent}

"I can't!" Cecilia interjects with a voice forceful enough to grab the 
attention of everyone around. Her eyes meet with Adelaide's for a moment, 
causing a pained expression to flash across both of their faces. Cecilia's face 
said "I can't be here!" Adelaide's face said "you can't be here!" With 
consensus inferred between them, Cecilia continues: "I'm, uh, staying with some 
folks here, I should probably eat with them. Yeah, haha, I have to go... I'll 
talk to you later, maybe."
{:.content__p_noindent}

"Oh, okay, I'll see you later..." Jean's voice trails off as he watches his 
former friend rush off, brushing past Adelaide as she slips onto the road and 
continues off into the distance.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Her heart is beating out of her chest, all the color has left her face, today's 
another one of the bad days. _I need to get out of here._ She thinks it again, 
the thought just hasn't been able to leave her mind. _I don't even care where. 
I need to get out._ 

Still early morning, with the soft blue of the sky tinting the world around 
her, Cecilia continues at a quick pace back to her house. She opens the door, 
praying her parents are still asleep. _Thank god._ They are both packed into 
one of the small beds, wrapped in the one blanket they have between them.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Taking the chance to leave unhindered, she steps lightly into the home to grab 
the satchel she keeps at the end of her bed. She reaches over her bed to start 
rolling up her blanket, careful not to put any weight on the frame to cause 
unwanted creaks. There are a few close calls, but nothing loud enough to stir 
her parents. With the blanket strapped to her bag and her sword, previously 
stashed and forgotten in the corner, she heads back outside.
{:.content__p_noindent}

She pauses for a moment in the doorway, thinking that maybe she shouldn't leave 
without a word like this. Something like that would only cause unneeded worry, 
the thought of her parents running around town to bother everyone she's ever 
known for no reason crosses her mind. However, rummaging through her bag to 
find some parchment, a quill, and the ink would be quite a bother; so, she 
settles with carving a simple note onto the door with the knife she keeps in 
her jacket.
{:.content__p_noindent}

"I'm leaving. &ndash;Cecilia" 
{:.content__p_centered}

And so, a new journey begins. Refreshed, like a weight lifted off her 
shoulders, she sets off. Travels don't need a destination, but a direction at 
least helps when leaving town. She thinks of the road to the south where she's 
guaranteed to run into her former party, and her ex-girlfriend with them. She 
thinks of the road to the east, toward the city, where a thousand bittersweet 
memories are waiting to be reawakened. Neither of those would do, the occasion 
calls for a fresh start. Perhaps the road to the north would do, one so rarely 
traveled ought to have some new opportunity... but then, she recalls the story 
of the book in the woods.

The forest west of town was a monster den, far too dangerous to approach for 
average men. Until a group of high level adventurers had been commissioned by 
the local lord to clear it, people weren't even willing to till the land near 
it. What was once a single field at the edge of town now spans the whole 
distance from the settlement to the trees. The fields now count four or five 
depending on the path you took. So maybe, just maybe, in that forest there 
still lies a book. 
{:.content__p_noindent}

With a simple "might as well," Cecilia treks onward through town, sticking to 
the side roads to avoid any more awkward situations. The ripe fields, once past 
the wall and standing among them, are breathtaking in the pale light of the 
morning sun. The unavoidable temptation to run her hands along the fresh grains 
takes hold of Cecilia, reminding her of a more joyful time in her life. _This 
is good. This was the right thing to do._
{:.content__p_noindent}

Now at the border of the farms and the forest, the real scope of this self 
appointed quest finally sets on Cecilia. It has been a while since she's 
partaken in much exercise aside from a few chores here and there, whereas this 
is a place that undoubtedly requires sure footing at the least. Not to mention 
the monsters, there ought to be at least a few here, though not as many as 
there were a decade ago. Grasping the handle of her sword, Cecilia prepares 
herself for whatever trials await her.

Hunting trails are sparse here, mostly following animal migration paths. The 
more popular spots are the groves of the north, less expansive but definitely 
safer. Autumn leaves cover the ground, accented by low foliage and boulders. 
It's eerily quiet, the rattle of dead leaves in the wind dominating the 
soundscape.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Weighing the ominous atmosphere against her life as it has been, Cecilia 
chooses to push forward. A number of the tracks to and from the edge appear to 
converge into a path. Route like this tend to lead somewhere of note, be it 
simply the other side, a den, or a watering hole. It's a start.
{:.content__p_noindent}

"Oh, right," she fumbles around a bit trying to open her satchel while walking, 
"I should have some notes on detection spells here somewhere." Among the things 
she had stashed in her bag, Cecilia kept a few notebooks for scribbling down 
observations and spells she picked up in school or from mages she'd come across 
while traveling. She flips through one such book, its pages nearly black from 
all the ink scratched into them. An expression of embarrassment fills her face 
as she realizes which book she had picked out. Cover to cover, it is filled 
with ramblings of self hatred, a diary of a girl who regrets every word she's 
ever spoken. "Nope, not this one, haha." She slams it shut with the hand 
holding it and shoves it back into her pack.
{:.content__p_noindent}

The next book she pulls out is much more organized. Skimming through the notes 
within it, there are a great variety of spells: conjuring ice, repelling 
insects, removing pebbles stuck in shoes, daily skincare, illusions of a 
target's lost family, decreasing a sword's weight... and detecting nearby 
fauna. There it is!
{:.content__p_noindent}

"Shit, I forgot this one is blood magic."
{:.content__p_noindent}

Blood magic is, as the name suggests, any sort of magic which requires blood. 
Some choose to split the category further depending on if the blood is from the 
caster or a "sacrifice." For better or worse, detection magic would fall into 
the former group. With a quick prick of her knife, Cecilia draws some blood 
from the tip of her thumb, rubbing it behind both of her ears. She mumbles an 
incantation in some ancient language and immediately perks up as the spell 
activates. _So there are some monsters around here, huh._ From the reaction 
she's getting, they don't seem to be anything she can't handle on her own. 
One-on-one, at least, she can hold her own against even an orc.

Making sure to keep track of anything that her detection picks up, she returns 
to her previous pace. _If I keep going this way I'll run into one, maybe two, 
of them. What a pain._ Just about every magician in the current era agrees that 
detection magic is terrible. At higher levels, one can sense a sort of "magic 
signature" with the spell, but for the average practitioner it's limited to 
size and approximate location of magic. It doesn't take long for an 
overconfident student to learn that magic isn't everything. Monsters don't 
always have massive magical energy radiation from there core, they don't need 
much to crush someone tying their tongue trying to spit out an incantation. 
Whether the creatures Cecilia detects are hostile beasts or rabbits eating 
enchanted herbs is solely up to her experience... and she's very much out of 
practice with this.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Approaching the first potential monster, Cecilia prepares for the worst. She 
draws her sword and adopts a combat stance, proud of how well she's retained 
her reflexes. All the spells she used on dangerous missions in the past run 
through her head. Whatever lies ahead is releasing enough energy that she, with all her training, wouldn't even need detection magic to notice. She chose to 
fight when she kept walking toward it. There's no backing out as she steps into 
the clearing ahead of her.

"Now that's unexpected."
{:.content__p_noindent}

Once her eyes adjust to the sunbeams filtering into the clearing, she relaxes 
her stance. The creature before her is anything but hostile: a deer blessed by 
the forest spirits. Its antlers glow faintly, as do the spots in its fur. 
Cecilia can't help letting out a relieved sigh as she sheathes her sword.
{:.content__p_noindent}

"An offering," she announces with a bow of her head.
{:.content__p_noindent}

The buck bows in return, and Cecilia reaches for one of the buns stuffed into 
her jacket. She approaches cautiously, extending her hand while looking 
directly into the eyes of the animal. It takes the bread from her with a gentle 
bite. The two exchange another bow before the deer prances off into the trees.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Being on good terms with the forest spirits is something of a rule for 
magicians. There's no telling how their favor can help, just as there is no 
telling how their scorn can hurt. Some traditions of magic even rely solely on 
spirits, not that Cecilia follows any of them.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Noting the luck of her first encounter, the spellsword returns to the path on 
the opposite side of the clearing. The shimmering lights of a few spirits now 
playfully circle around her. Somewhere in her heart, Cecilia had hoped they 
would simply guide her to her destination, but that doesn't seem to be the 
case. This happens pretty often, and arrangements like this aren't without 
their uses. So-called spirit arts users often argue that the flight patterns of 
local spirits are far better than any detection spell, indicating not just 
power but also hostility. Though, hostility here is defined in terms of the 
spirits' favor, which itself is controversial.

A few yards away Cecilia sees a dead rabbit pinned to a tree by a crudely fashioned arrow, it seems to have been stuck there for at least a day, so it wouldn't do any good as food now. She pities the rabbit a bit, but most of her pity is reserved for the poor fool who decided to kill a forest creature with no purpose and no consideration for the potential consequences of such an action.

The second peak in magic along the path is nearby within a dozen or so minutes. 
The terrain turns rockier, more stone than brush here. Not a second passes 
after Cecilia steps out of the trees onto the pebbled land before the spirits 
all scatter. _Stay calm... stay calm... it's probably just the end of their 
territory._ Indeed, the sound of running water can be heard. Water and forest 
spirits are generally friendly toward one another, but they wouldn't casually 
enter each other's territory like this. That's probably all this is. A long 
forgotten regret for never delving deeper into spirit studies returns to 
Cecilia's mind.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Nearing what seems to be the source of all the noise, the larger stones become 
more scattered. More a stream than a river, the running water is only knee deep 
and crystal clear. Good signs all around. Not much of a chance for sneak 
attacks from water beasts in a place like this.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Still, there's nothing here that matches what she had seen with her spell. That 
could be troublesome. Cecilia shuts her eyes in an attempt to focus purely on 
her detection. Something is certainly nearby, but the exact spot is harder to 
pinpoint at this range. _Downstream, maybe?_ She follows the rocky shore of the 
river, stopping only briefly to scoop some of the freshwater up to her mouth.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Along the river Cecilia notices an abandoned shovel and the splintered remains of what was once an amateur bow. Alongside this is a rather large stain of dried blood. She does her best to pay this no mind, as picking apart whatever could have led to this sort of scene is the kind of pain she chooses to avoid. At least, that’s what she tells herself to explain why she feels nothing at the sight.
{:.content__p_noindent}

The boulders begin to break the surface of the water, chopping the stream up 
into rapids as the river continues. The whitewater noise echoes in the empty 
space, while treetops in the distance appear level with the rocks. _There must 
be a waterfall ahead,_ she notes. And so there is. The ground drops twenty feet 
or so to where the river continues. The water collects into a small pool at the 
bottom, full of rocks like everything else.

"So that's why my detection wasn't working right on this..." she mutters as she 
peers down below. Rather than a singular creature, there is a swarm of water 
spirits. They form a dense cloud like bees in a hive. An extraordinarily rare 
sight such as this requires some investigation. And so Cecilia searches for a 
route to the bottom of the cliff.
{:.content__p_noindent}

This, too, only takes a brief scan of the environment to conclude. The drop is a
result of erosion by this stream, only extending a handful of yards in either 
direction. Beyond it, the terrain slopes again, steep but still manageable with 
the flora rooted to it. She's almost tempted to try sliding along the dirt and 
dead leaves, her better judgment saying otherwise. Still, she makes quick work 
of the descent with modest sliding from the trunk of one tree to another.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Here, at the edge of the pool, she steps toward the mass of spirits. "Excuse 
me," she addresses them, only to be met with a frenzied wave passing through 
the group. Thinking that she might have better luck with less distance, she 
steps forward again. Another wave. Each step she takes garners the same 
reaction, until her front foot splashes into the head of the stream where the 
spirits gathered. All at once, the spirits scatter off in every direction as if 
a bubble had popped. "Okay then..." Cecilia is a bit taken aback by this 
response, watching a few of the sparkling lights fade into the distance.

Yet, even with the spirits dispersed, Cecilia still senses a palpable mass of 
magic. Returning her attention to the rock that had held their attention, she 
realizes why: a single book laid upon it.
{:.content__p_noindent}

"Could it really be?" She's stunned with disbelief. That book, the one of 
legend, of children's gossip, truly exists.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Having found the book, a new question must be asked: what does she intend to do 
with it? The task of finding it was surprisingly simple, perhaps she's simply 
the first to bother. It feels magical, so it must have some value. Given her 
current situation, selling it might be the best move. Then, where could she do 
that? A memory of her time in school comes to mind, the libraries in the 
capital would certainly be interested in a rare tome; however, the thought of 
returning to the academy doesn't give her a good feeling. _Well, I'll just head 
east and figure it out from there,_ she decides.

She wades a bit further into the river to reach the book when she notices the 
rather peculiar title etched into its cover: "How To Be Broken and Never Get 
Better." Odd, but not so odd in the context of other magic texts she's come 
across. Pushing the contents of her satchel to one side to make way for the 
book, being about half the size of her entire bag, she stows it away.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Now to leave the forest, skirt around town, and hit the road. Or so her plan 
goes, but the title of the book continues to nag at her. _It's weird, right?_ 
She barely manages to climb back up the hill before deciding that she ought to 
give it a look. After all, it could be completely worthless, just a book with a 
little magic ink or bound with healing herbs, something mundane.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Perching on one of the larger boulders, a round one about up to her waist, she 
retrieves the stored book and opens it up. The first page greets her like so:
{:.content__p_noindent}

How To Be Broken and Never Get Better<br/>
The Life and Magic of Cecilia of Altbirk
{:.content__p_centered}

Cecilia is quite taken aback by this introduction. For a magic book to tailor its own contents to suit the reader isn't too outlandish, maybe 
the book really will fetch a nice price after all. Yet, with her curiosity 
still not quenched, she decides to read further.

As the subtitle suggests, the book outlines the events of her life and, when it 
comes up, the magic she learned. In fact, the sections that pertain to the 
magic she had encountered throughout her life were filled with great detail, as 
if the tome had been designed to acts as a repository for spells. Perhaps the 
creator viewed this creation as a mistake, intending to use the book to record 
magic they came across but failing to keep it to just that.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Every remotely notable event of her childhood is layed out within the pages, 
including her relationship with the girl who left town just to avoid her. Then 
onto the traveling mage who got the wrong idea about the extent of their 
relationship, as if turning the tables on Cecilia. All the spells the man had 
taught her are explained in great detail, but surrounded by anecdotes about the 
time she had spent with him.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Then it continues into the time she finally ventured away from home. It details 
her studies in school with more depth than her own notes and her awkwardness 
around her classmates with more depth than her own memories. The names of all 
the girls she tried wooing while enrolled are listed out in full, their given 
and family names, their titles and ranks. Until finally reaching the formation 
of her party at her graduation. The norm in this country is for students of 
swords and magic to work in groups throughout their studies, but only 
officially registering the group as a party once they'd concluded their program.
{:.content__p_noindent}

The spells noted throughout the following sections are more sparse but, in some 
ways, more practical. The skills Cecilia picked up on her travels, however, are 
soon overshadowed by the book's narration of her relationship with Adelaide. 
Unbeknownst to the rest of their party, as romance is often forbidden between 
members, the two had dated for nearly two years before going their separate 
ways. Every date they had gone on, every bout of intercourse, and every heated 
argument are all here in excruciating detail. Finally finishing her reading of 
this section is perhaps the first time Cecilia has ever been glad to be done 
with her time with Adelaide.
{:.content__p_noindent}

From then on, the only spells ever noted in the book are some particular sorts 
of sex magic. The description of her downward spiral after the breakup are like 
a train wreck of her own making that Cecilia cannot divert her gaze from. 
Blowing through all the gold in her travel funds on whatever brothel would have 
her before wasting all her silver on booze, before eventually waking up on the 
banks of a river somewhere outside the capitol, it's not a story she enjoys 
seeing written out.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Reading paragraph after paragraph about her own mistakes like this, like the 
climax of her story was that disgraceful stumble across the countryside to make 
her way back to her hometown, serves well to remind Cecilia that this latest 
journey can only be described as running away. The remainder of the pages only 
containing a few passages about small jobs she took on for mere coppers, it was 
as if it was already over
{:.content__p_noindent}

The last page contains a summary of the present, a single line that Cecilia can 
barely force herself to read before slamming the book shut, closing it for the 
rest of eternity:
{:.content__p_noindent}

"And so, Cecilia knew, her only remaining chance at happiness was to die."
{:.content__p_centered}
