---
author: una
description: >
  Some thoughts about library classification as I try to find one to use for my
   own collection of books, documents, and various webpages.
layout: post
subtitle: >
  &amp; Some Critiques Thereof
tags: blog classification taxonomy library library-science
title: Library Classification Systems
---

Quick backstory, real quick (I swear). In my endless pursuit of the arts, I
traverse the web far beyond the limits of the Anglosphere rather frequently.
Yes, this could be the obvious end result of my friend in sophomore year of high
school convincing me to watch Girls Bravo and somehow hooking me on anime from
that moment on. Regardless of the initial catalyst, it's obvious from my digital
footprint that I appreciate Japanese art to an extent one might call me a
'weeaboo,' or 'weeb' for short. That could be applicable in some sense, but the
term itself carries a bit of an ortientalist implication; however, I take great
care to see Asian cultures for what they are rather than idealized stereotypes
and fantasies. Whether said care truly bars me from such labeling is not for me
to say, but I do hope it does. In any case, I want more from the media of Japan
and China than just what gets filtered in through publishers and independent
translators, I want to understand it completely. Part of that is to learn
languages, another part to learn culture, but that is often also filtered! I
need to understand the niche subcultures online, the slang that comes with them,
the people who partake in them... it's hard, but I've found resources to assist
in it.
{:.content__p_dropcap}

It's these very resources that kicked off this whole issue. See, I was doing my
usual thing and hopping around Twitter looking for cuties to stare at for
however long it takes before I start feeling more envious than attracted when
tragedy struck. The easy translation provided by the app for someone's bio was
just as confusing as trying to read the original Mandarin. This was obviously a
case where slang was boggling the machine translator, so I had to take matters
into my own hands. I visited all the usual sites looking for an explanation,
eventually working out the meaning to a satisfactory degree, all the while
rambling to my friends about it. That's when it hit me: I should just bookmark
these sites in a convenient place. Not the most revolutionary thought, but it
was definitely going to be more complicated than that.
{:.content__p_noindent}

At the time, the state of my bookmarks was... less than satisfactory. I started
gathering up the reference sites for a bunch of languages in respectively marked
folders on my bookmarks bar. Despite delving deeper than necessary and getting
distracted by thousands of barely relevant pages, I got it done eventually;
however, the rest of my bookmarks bar was still there. A mess! I was already
organizing things, right? Why not continue? I may not have access to my Pinboard
account anymore, but there's tons of alternatives these days, right? Let's pick
a new manager and get going on this!
{:.content__p_noindent}

I settled on Raindrop in the end. It's got a decent UI, I can use OAuth to log
in, there's tags and collections, and it even lets you upload documents to store
away. With the destination decided, it was just a matter of migrating ever
single last bookmark I had... I'm still not done with this part, by the way,
there's a few hundred remaining. When I put the bookmarks in this new system, I
tried my best to organize them in a way that made sense to me. I have a premium
account so I can nest collections (mostly got it to upload more files), and
that's helped create a good hierarchy of categories to organize all this stuff.
Yet, while throwing all the open tabs about bread clips on my phone into the
manager, I just looked upon what I'd created in despair.

I need to reorganize it. It's still a mess. Like, what the fuck sort of
hierarchy is
`Politics: History & Theory / Economics / Everyday Items / Bread Clips`? Not to
mention that for the 425 bookmarks I have as I write this there are 706
different tags! That might not be too bad, a lot of stuff is just getting added
in so there's not as much overlap as there will be eventually with these... but
still, the disparity is getting to me. I have to find some standardization
system for what is worth being a tag and for how to categorize everything.
{:.content__p_noindent}

So began the great journey into the rabbit hole. Did you know library science is
a whole field of study and librarians are more than receptionists? I did, not
that it's super relevant here actually. Classification systems are a dime a
dozen, I thought I could just pick one and went shopping around. I started at
the most obvious point, the Dewe-- Wikidata. I know Wikidata isn't exactly the
classification system I'm looking for, or one at all for that matter, but
entries in it point all over the place and that's super helpful.

First stop from there was the Library of Congress Linked Data Service which is,
of course, full of linked data. The primary dataset this pulls from is the
Library of Congress Subject Headings (LCSH), which is vast and great for tags
but with identifiers like `sh2013001942` (this is for 3D modeling) it's not
great for the sort of categories I want. This also links to WorldCat's Faceted
Application of Subject Terminology (FAST) dataset where the identifier is
`1910261` but the hierarchy is still all the same... not that a slightly shorter
ID is any better. Nonetheless, I ought to keep these things in mind for that
whole determining when a tag is a good tag, I suppose.

That's the thing, tags (or headings) aren't too difficult to find lists of, but
getting a good categorical map is a bit tough. That 3D modeling heading can be
in any number of different sections, because the LCSH and FAST are linked data
meant to connect concepts as thoroughly as possible. Thus, it's time to look at
some real library classification systems, the type of stuff they use to organize
a whole building full of books.
{:.content__p_noindent}

One of the more common systems these days is the Universal Decimal
Classification (UDC) which is maintained by the UDC Consortium (UDCC), it's
supposedly rather thorough, but the freely available section is vastly
abbreviated. Top level headings aren't going to get me anywhere! This is also an
introduction to the main issue of this blog: the small part of the UDC I can see
without paying anyone already shows some categorization issues. Don't get me
wrong, these are issues I have for my personal usage and don't really hold as
worthy critiques of book sorting the world over. The UDC is based on the Dewey
Decimal Classification (DDC), this is true for just about every system that sees
significant usage, and the DDC is very old.

Calling it old might sound like a bit of a shallow critique, I know, but hear me
out. First off, I have _a lot_ of bookmarks about typography. From design
guidelines to file format specifications, from software tutorials to web font
showcases... what you won't see here is anything about metal casting or physical
founding in general. That's because I don't do book printing, typography is a
technical art to me and as such I have all these bookmarks in the broad category
of graphic design (along with 3D modeling, UX/UI design, &c.). The DDC has a
certain bias about libraries and books. Information science, librarianship,
bookprinting, things like that are all specially categorized apart from other
sciences and professions. These might make sense in the context of an
established library managed by actual librarians, but it doesn't mean anything
to _me_.[^1]
{:.content__p_noindent}

[^1]:
    Something I did miss here, because I was looking through a bunch of systems
    based on the DDC, including most notable the Nippon Decimal Classification
    due to the high frequency of Japanese works in my collection, is that in the
    DDC itself Computer Science is in the 000 class (000, 003-005) along with
    book related topics (002) and library/information sciences (020).

Then there's classifications that just bother me more than simple inconvenience.
Psychology is classified under philosophy rather than social sciences or
something to that end. This is honestly the quickest way for me to tell
something is based on the DDC, since a huge section of my bookmarks falls under
abnormal psychology. I've discussed this with a few people and heard out there
justifications for it, but while I see how it might be considered its own
philosophy altogether, one could say the same about any science. I don't really
know the full history of this, but basically the DDC was created in the late
19th century and mostly established itself in the mid-20th century. Psychiatry
as a medical field and a science has seen most of its development in that time,
whereas chemistry, physics, physiology, &c. were already fairly established.
Psychology as a philosophical consideration of human minds and behaviors
significantly predates all that, and its medical applications were less than
consistent; so while psychiatry does indeed have its own section of medicine in
the classification, I would prefer to put psychology as a philosophical
subsection thereof.

Since the UDC is based directly on the DDC and the Library of Congress
Classification (LCC) is based on Charles Ammi Cutter's Expansive Classification
from 1882 and clearly parallels this issue, they're both definitely out at this
point. Again, I get why this would be a massive undertaking and certainly not
worth the effort to change at this point, but it simply doesn't work for me.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Worth mentioning as well that the DDC is maintained by the Online Computer
Library Center (OCLC) and they don't exactly hand it out like candy. I'm not
going to register an organization and pay out of pocket for a system I'm kind of
sort of interested in to organize my ever growing collection of bookmarks and
PDFs. The LCC doesn't _necessarily_ have this issue, of course, but that would
only really matter if I liked it. What I mean to say is that free access to the
system is also a major consideration here.

Cost aside, I do have one final complaint that's really endemic to the
perspective of society as a whole and therefore I'm not likely to find much in
the way of classifications that meet my needs in this regard. The category of
history is sorted primarily geographically. With a hierarchy that starts with
history, goes into Europe, then into France and Monaco, then likely more
subsections that aren't readily available to me at the moment. The issue with
this is that it isn't very intuitive to anyone but those who think of history in
terms of place and the time in that place. If I want to read about the French
Revolution, I would undoubtedly have to go into this section and be bombarded
with documents about war tactics and the politics of it. However, to me that's
wholly separate from the cultural shifts it brought about, and that's why I
don't care for the way society and "history buffs" frame the past. I've taken to
the term "military history" to distinguish it as I need some umbrella to
separate it. Not to mention that, as an anarchist, I can't really get behind
sorting by country unless I'm talking specifically about political and military
histories of that country's government. This sort of top level geographical
classification just isn't going to work for me. Also, what the fuck is with
class 990, history of other areas? Australia, Antarctica, _and_ extraterrestrial
worlds? What a broad stroke.
