---
author: una
description: >
  Yamada Imari attempt to mend his broken heart, or at least bury it.
entry: >
  0x002
lang: en
layout: post
permalink: ennui/002
series: ennui
series_index: 2
tags: >
  fiction fantasy isekai
title: >
  Prologue III: Valentine
---

February 14th, Reiwa 9 — Tokyo, Japan
{:.content__p_centered}

Yamada Imari has a broken heart. He’s particularly prone to a sort of self 
criticism bordering on absolute loathing, which really doesn’t help the 
situation. His friend going out with his crush isn’t too big a deal, it’s clear 
he was never really going to act on his feelings at this rate. A couple months 
from now, she’ll be a senior in high school and he’ll be starting at some 
mediocre college. Sure, they’ll still be neighbors; there’s no reason to move 
into the dormitories of a school so nearby.
{:.content__p_dropcap.content__p_noindent}

The truth of the matter is that she simply cannot see him as a romantic option. 
He knows this quite well. It is, admittedly, partly his fault. The two have 
been so close for a year now and he would never dare make a move on her. Either 
she’s simply respecting the boundary he erected or has misread the situation in 
some other way. No use crying over spilled milk.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Anyway, it’s noon now and Imari remains glued to his pillow by his own dried 
tears. He seems to have reached some conclusion about the situation, whether 
that’s actual acceptance or not is still an open question. I mean, he’s still 
lying there, but his eyes are open and the tears have stopped. Maybe he’s just 
dehydrated, actually.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Eventually, however, he reaches a stage of numbness, that sort of hazy state 
where all he needs is a simply distraction to keep his mind occupied. Though 
much of the conversation had been greatly overshadowed by certain other topics, 
Jin had reminded him of the perfect distraction for times like this.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Covenant of Dragons is a rather typical MMO, a medieval fantasy RPG. Jin had 
undersold it in reality, what he referred to as skins are more like character 
classes. They each provide a default character model and a default outfit, so 
the phrasing wasn’t too far of the mark, yet there is a certain degree of 
customizability beyond that which makes it so much more.

He had been a bit bashful about it the other day, but Imari is rather fond of 
these sorts of games to this day. It’s not that he’d grown out of them so much 
as he simply never had the motivation to immerse himself in a whole new world, 
all the lore and the mechanics of it. When the servers for the last game he 
played went down, he just never picked up a new one. Simple as that. In this 
moment, he’s ready to take a bit of a plunge.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Of course, what Jin said about Imari always playing women in games was true as 
well. Given the option, he’s not going to switch things up too much at this 
point. So he picks the Miko class, a Priestess of Dragons, the titular Covenant 
being hers by birthright. Just about every class in the game has the option to 
pick up a Covenant or two throughout the game, it’s even in one of the main 
quests… well, the Miko class is somewhat newer, meant for experienced players, 
skipping the quest to make a Covenant of their own. Imari doesn’t know this, 
but does he really have to? He’s smart enough to be able to figure out a game 
like this, with the hordes of wikis and forums available, without needing to be 
coddled by something like a tutorial.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Thus he begins. At first he hangs on every word of the cutscenes, every popup, 
every single line of flavor text. Yes, at first he begs for immersion, hoping 
this new world will somehow overwrite the one he’s truly in. Yes soon he is 
mashing the skip button on every line of dialog, it’s not enough, never enough. 
He needs this, he needs to be this shrine maiden, clad in her kosode and hakama 
within his screen, wielding sharp swords and mighty magics. Anything would be 
better, he thinks, than the world he knows, and if it’s this game then maybe 
that wouldn’t be so bad.

Imari was instantly hooked on the game, his mind a sponge wrung of its tears, 
ready to accept something new. The first quest, the quasi-tutorial these sorts 
of games are wont to have, was over in a flash. He can get to the rest of the 
main quest line later, right now he needs pure escape. What better for that 
than side quests? Collect some herbs, slay some goblins, tend some crops. 
Between it all, he gets to wander.
{:.content__p_noindent}

Wandering is what makes an RPG an RPG, a _role playing game_. To live as your 
character, to live in this world, that is what wandering provides. He gets to 
play the opposite of the powerless boy he is. Rather than being trapped in a 
prison of his own making, itself confined in the prison of school or work, his 
avatar is free. A girl with no obligation, a girl with power, and a girl with 
freedom. Oh, how he longs to be her.
{:.content__p_noindent}

This is, of course, my own conjecture on the matter. He wouldn’t speak of such 
things to anyone, would he? He would simply play it off as having found a good 
game, that the game itself is addictive. That would be his excuse for gluing 
his eyes to this screen for hours on end, I’m sure of it.
{:.content__p_noindent}

“Imari! Dinner!”

The shouts of his sister fall on deaf ears. He can’t afford to break his 
concentration once he’s found it. Wouldn’t it defeat the whole purpose of this 
venture to let the real world in the moment it beckons?
{:.content__p_noindent}

“Imari… Whatever.”
{:.content__p_noindent}

She gives one last call, the last of her patience. This is really the limit 
with her brother these days, who is she to tell him he has to eat if he’s just 
going to mope through dinner anyway? He can always eat later or just waste away 
for all she cares.
{:.content__p_noindent}

And waste away he does… for the night anyway. Not a wink of sleep. Just the 
world of this game and his hand crafted other self. He has school tomorrow, he 
knows this; however, as mentioned previously, he could really care less about 
that. So what if he looks dead in the morning? Not like he could hide his 
feelings anyway, right? And if he runs into Shiori? Well, then he’d just break 
down again, wouldn’t he? All the better to simply take all the time he can to 
grow numb, sleep deprivation can certainly help with that in some cases.
{:.content__p_noindent}

By the time he has to change into his uniform, splash a bit of water on his 
face, and stumble all the way to his school, he’ll have played this game for 
eighteen straight hours. Plenty of time to have forgotten his attachments in 
this world and in their place have grown new ones in another.
{:.content__p_noindent}

End of the day, everything for the next couple months is set in stone. He’s 
lost his chance to confess to Shiori in a way that could actually lead to 
something, and he sure as hell isn’t going to bother with it just to relieve 
himself. His graduation is already assured, nothing he does in school really 
matters so long as he doesn’t get himself expelled. His acceptance into college 
is done too, all he needs at this point is to show up there in April. But in 
the game, he has plenty of choices to make still. He’d made it to level 24 in 
the span of the night, nothing to sneeze at for sure, but less than a quarter 
of the level cap. There’s still the majority of the main quest line to 
experience and who knows how many side quests!
{:.content__p_noindent}

From now until graduation, Yamada Imari will dedicate himself to nothing but 
Covenant of Dragons.
{:.content__p_noindent}