---
author: una
entry: 9
layout: post
permalink: /pr/9
series: pr
series_index: 9
stylized_title: Procrastination Report №9
tags: game blog manga novel
title: Report №9
---

Am I an author? Is that what I am? I don’t remember _writing_ anything, though.
That was probably some other cat.
{:.dropcap}

[_Only Each Other_](https://dynasty-scans.com/chapters/only_each_other)
([どうせ二人ぼっち](https://ichicomi.com/episode/2550912965979341221)) is a yuri
one-shot included in
[_yrhm Yurihime 20th Anthology_](https://www.mangaupdates.com/series/x8umbd3/yrhm-yurihime-20th-anthology)
(yrhm 百合姫 20th アンソロジー)_._ It’s more of a vignette than a short story, I
suppose, a peak into a yuri setup that doesn’t go anywhere. It portrays a sort
of angsty relationship between a popular girl and a gloomy girl very well. It’s
100% vibes, easy 7/10.

[_I Got Reincarnated as a Minor Character and I Won’t Give Up on TS_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/i-got-reincarnated-as-a-minor-character-and-i-wont-give-up-on-ts/)
(かませ役 ♂ に憑依転生した俺はＴＳを諦めない) is a gender-bender yuri urban
fantasy web novel about a “man” who, despite “his” wishes to be reincarnated as
girl, is reincarnated as a minor villain in what seems to be a _shounen_ manga.
It actually baffles me that this series was seemingly uploaded to Kukuyomu
instead of Syosetu, given that the protagonist is reincarnated as a character
named Narou Kei. For those out of the loop, _Narou-kei_ refers to the style of
web novels found on the site Syosetu ni Narou; basically, any time you thought a
series kind of felt like an _isekai_ but wasn’t actually an _isekai_, you were
probably just picking up on it being _Narou-kei_. The world of the series is
that urban fantasy setup where dungeons pop up throughout the world, needing to
be conquered before they expand out into the real world, with the story taking
place on an island controlled by schools that research and conquer these
dungeons. Throughout all this. Kei is determined to become a girl, specifically
a “mysterious beauty,” despite the circumstances of her reincarnation. There’s a
lot of acting as if she knows what’s going on, perhaps just playing up what she
knows from the “original” manga, to meet that “mysterious” criteria, whereas the
rest is handled with cross-dressing and/or magic. Along the way, she gains a
weapon in the form of a scythe which she contracts with, essentially filling the
“system” trope, as the scythe supports her particularly transgender form of
_chuunibyou_. Perhaps my favorite bit in all this is that Kei is a staunch
believer that men getting in the way of yuri is a sin; any time she isn’t in
“mysterious beauty” form, she considers getting close to her classmates to be
worthy of nothing short of a death penalty. I’ve read to ch. 105 thus far,
giving this a decent 6/10 (though that might just be biased low due to my
inability to focus on anything lately).

Correction to my last report, there _has been_
[news](https://www.reddit.com/r/feedthebeast/comments/1kq9h7z/thaumcraft_7_trailer_and_ama/)
on Thaumcraft from Team CoFH, 4 months ago. Also, it is closed-source so I
wouldn’t be able to port it myself anyway. If working on my own mod goes well,
and I get comfortable with the language and features of modern Minecraft mods, I
might consider requesting to join the team working on it. The
[FAQ](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EdnsceBlw_wvymhYsZ-XdtJRnf726GpFPcoyRC47bDo/)
about Thaumcraft VII says that they’ve had very little success getting
contributions from new people brought in on it, so I’d like to make sure that
it’s something I’m absolutely capable of before attempting.

I’ve decided that, at least once Thaumcraft VII is released, I’m just going to
develop my own modpack. We sort of did this before, but that was more _curating
mods_ than it was _developing a pack_. I have a couple of justifications for
myself to do this. First off, I’ve been working on updating
[Isabella II](github.com/una-ada/Isabella/) and want to give it some mod
coverage as well; developing the resourcepack alongside a modpack would give me
a better scope for what mods I need to give coverage and what I don’t. Second,
there’s just a lot of really dumb mods that every pack developer for some reason
believes to be necessary, such as
[YUNGNICKYOUNG](https://modrinth.com/user/YUNGNICKYOUNG)’s various structure
mods (I _especially_ dislike the
[Desert Temples](https://modrinth.com/mod/yungs-better-desert-temples) one).
Third, much of what I want to add in my own mod is essentially just additions to
existing mods, which makes more sense in the context of building my own modpack.
Finally, every other modpack developer is a fucking coward. We can seemingly all
agree that having ten varieties of silver ore is absurd, and a combination of
certain mods, registries, and scripts is used to avoid that in modpacks;
however, one could reasonably argue that it is rather realistic to have many
varieties of ores for one metal and specific processing being required to make
them interchangeable. Yet, having a hundred different cables for electricity, a
dozen different item pipes or conveyor belts, and a handful of different fluid
pipes is just the norm? Not on my watch! I want a universal solution to this! I
also want to control the progression of mods a bit, with certain technology mods
requiring other technology mods to start on. Crafting a “metal plate” with an
ingot and hammer? Absurd!

After some thinking on it, I’ve come to the conclusion that
[TerraFirmaCraft](https://modrinth.com/mod/terrafirmacraft) would be the best
baseline for progression. Then, after discussing with Hermea, realized that
[TerraFirmaGreg](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/modpacks/terrafirmagreg-modern)
might actually be the best modpack to work off of for my own. I would like a few
more cosmetic mods, like furniture and the like, added in, plus I really don’t
know how I feel about things like Immersive Aircraft… maybe
[Valkyrien Skies](https://modrinth.com/mod/valkyrien-skies) would be a better
fit?
{:.no-indent}

My continuation on [Isabella](github.com/una-ada/Isabella/) has been going
_alright._ I realized that a lot of the existing continuation work just doesn’t
fit my intentions with the pack, such as how most stone types are simply
recolored stone. There’s also the way all the wood is meant to be slight
variations in tone, rather than the more whimsical coloring of vanilla wood
types (acacia is orange, mangrove is red, warped is cyan, &c.). I made some
progress on updating it to 1.19 before I got distracted with trying to fix up
some of those issues, which led down another dumbass rabbit hole of trying to
extend the CTM compatibility to the alternative mod
[Fusion](https://modrinth.com/mod/fusion-connected-textures/). Maybe it was just
my install that was having issues, or maybe its the 1.19.2 version entirely, but
I couldn’t get other examples to load, couldn’t get my textures to work, and
overall just hate how Fusion has its own custom formatting for CTM. Anyway, I’ll
have to reevaluate my testing setup before trying to continue on this.

Overall, this was one of those weeks where I couldn’t focus on doing any
particular thing for long. I’ve been working on my worldbuilding map a bit, at
least.

*[CTM]: Connected Textures Mod
