---
author: una
entry: 10
layout: post
permalink: /pr/10
series: pr
series_index: 10
stylized_title: Procrastination Report №10
tags: blog manga novel
title: Report №10
---

Oopsie! I forgot to post anything for about a month. I was just really locked in
playing Minecraft, but I’m back on the yuri grind so here’s some reviews for
you.
{:.dropcap}

[_They Said My Status Stayed the Same Even Though I Reincarnated in Another World!?_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/they-said-my-status-stayed-the-same-even-though-i-reincarnated-in-another-world/)
(異世界転生してもステータスはそのままでって言ったのですが!?) is a gender-bender
yuri isekai web novel about a guy who is randomly approached by a supposed god
and asked to come over to her world. The bit is that all this guy asks is that
his status remain the same, but his magic potential couldn’t have been known to
him on Earth. Why become a girl? Well, there’s just more girls in this world, so
being an average guy here is basically just being a cute girl right? Honestly, I
only got up to ch. 17 of this, Japanese web novels always speedrun the setup and
it’s kinda hard to get into. I might come back to this whenever I feel like
dealing with the weird pacing thing,[^fn1] for now it’s a tentative 5/10.

[_A Shy, White-haired Girl Has No Interest in Being Someone’s Love Target!_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/a-shy-white-haired-girl-has-no-interest-in-being-someones-love-target/)
(弱气白发少女才不要被攻略) is a gender-bender yuri web novel about average
college student Su Yun wishing to be a girl and turning into a vampire within
the hour. This immediately spirals into a vaguely blackmailed fueled romance
between her and the school belle, amid various conflicts brought about by each
other’s identities and the world at large. Frankly, it’s very stressful to read.
Someone on NU said that the conflicts just get reminders without resolution, but
honestly that makes sense in the pacing. A lot of the issues are decades long
family disputes, you can’t expect them to be resolved within the month the story
has spanned in the 168 translated chapters. I do think it’s fun how Su Yun’s
parents are pretty accepting of the situation and help her go through all the
legal procedures of transition, changing her gender and name on her ID… though
it is weird that despite her changing her name legally and everyone around her
the name Xiaoyun, the narration still refers to her as Yun. It’s pretty well
written, just a bit too much drama for my anxious little kitty heart, so I’ve
put it on hold at ch. 235, giving it a 5/10.

[_Destroy it All and Love Me in Hell!_](https://www.mangaupdates.com/series/k7k4tye/zenbu-kowashite-jigoku-de-aishite)
(ぜんぶ壊して地獄で愛して) is a “psychological” yuri manga about the perfect
Yoshizawa Kurumi being asked to help deal with the delinquent Naoi by her
teacher. This initial meeting is marred by Naoi overhearing Kurumi complaining
about the situation, which gently transitions into frequent homoerotic fist
fights. Not to spoil too much, but at one point Kurumi confesses to Naoi, which
was baffling in the context of how much they’ve been punching each other
already. I’m up-to-date at vol. 5 ch. 25 so I can give this one a nice 6/10.

[_Trapped in Paradise_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/trapped-in-paradise/)
(穿书的我绝不向渣男主屈服) is a gender-bender romance isekai web novel about a
Ning Chu, who was transported into the world of his own erotic web novel series.
After some initial confusion over which character he is supposed to be, Ning Chu
concludes he must be the woman who is later discovered to be living in the
protagonist, Wen Yang’s dorm. Concluding that this means he may eventually
become a girl and sleep with the protagonist, he decides to temper Wen Yang’s
promiscuity by essentially acting like a jealous girlfriend, stopping Yang from
hanging out with girls who show up throughout the original plot. The setup is
kind of funny, but it’s pretty hard for me to get into straight gender-bender
series, so I’ve put this on hold after merely 20 chapters, it’s a 4/10 until I
get bisexual about it.

[_After Reincarnation, I Was Turned Into a Slave Maid by the Princess_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/after-reincarnation-i-was-turned-into-a-save-maid-by-the-princess/)
(重生后我被公主变成奴婢女仆) is a gender-bender yuri isekai web novel about the
great hero who suddenly died right before being given the keys to the kingdom
and the lovely princess after defeating the demon lord. Given a second chance,
the hero excitedly dives into character creation on the assumption that he was
creating his designated companion for this more arduous adventure… turns out he
was actually designing his own character? What!? Also, that whole previous
adventure was just a simulation or something, now _she_’s in the “real world.” I
only got up to ch. 11 on this one, the setup is a bit too post-apocalyptic
feeling at the start, it might get better but I just wasn’t in the mood to see
it through. Should I just give this a tentative 4/10 then? Might come back to
it.

[_The Green Snake Won’t Be Caged_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/the-green-snake-wont-be-caged/)
(青蛇也非池中物) is a gender-bender yuri _xianxia_ isekai web novel about Ye Jin
who gets reincarnated as a little green snake up in the mountains at the edge of
civilization. She surpasses her fellow “yao” in cultivation with the power of
“merit,” doing good deeds for the villagers wandering into the woods, until
human cultivators come to exterminate all the “yao” in her area. One of those
hunters, Bai Xingning, is gravely injured and Ye Jin just can’t stop herself
from trying to help! Ye Jin wraps her snake body all around Bai Xingning, their
spiritual power mixing together to extinguish the poison in the latter’s body.
Mixing powers like this is generally referred to in _xianxia_ works as “dual
cultivation,” essentially sex. Bai xingning gets really attached afterwards and
chases after the fleeing Ye Jin to try to woo her. It really deserved the
“clingy lover” tag. The two get together pretty early on, their relationship
very unbalanced, and go on all sorts of adventures that culminate in a fight for
the fate of the world. The translator was very misleading on claiming Ye Jin
will only be a bottom until the hundredth chapter or so, it follows the very
typical Chinese TS yuri setup wherein the protagonist believes herself to be
totally capable of topping due to having once been a man, but clearly hasn’t met
the average trans woman. The ending feels very abrupt though, having a big “to
be continued” vibe, despite generally having tied up all the loose ends, which
greatly reduces my score for it. So it’s a 7/10 with 494 chapters.

This is spoilers, but I can’t not talk about it. There’s a part where Ye Jin and
Bai Xingning travel to the “yao” territory and come face-to-face with the
normalization of slavery there. Ye Jin, as both an isekai protagonist and being
the embodiment of a perfect good girl, is naturally opposed to the idea, but
acknowledges that she does not have the power to contend with all the forces
with vested interests in maintaining the institution. As a cultivation series,
one should naturally expect her to _eventually_ acquire such power, but it’s
also soon revealed that we don’t have to wait for that. Through their
investigation of the oddities in this land, Ye and Bai discover a burgeoning
slave organization readying themselves for open opposition. The issue then
becomes that this organization is closely tied, if not entirely a manifestation,
of a church from the “subcontinent” from which many of the slaves originate.
Ties are then found between this church and “demons,” the ultimate enemy
throughout the series who travel the universe to harvest worlds for their
spiritual energy, and the upcoming slave revolt has been entirely orchestrated
to weaken the defense of this world and establish footholds for the demons
outside of the “subcontinent.” This is one of the most horrifying circumstances
to find in a web novel, because by all rights the slaves deserve freedom and
this should not be denied due to the original instigators’ ulterior motives.
_Thankfully_, the series does not disappoint, the protagonist party merely
fights the demons and, if anything, seeks to ensure the slaves themselves are
unharmed by this fight. Ultimately, they support the revolt in taking control of
the city when its defenders are exhausted from the battle, leading to complete
abolition of the institution of slavery.
{:.no-indent}

[_The Defeated Saintess is on a Journey to Tame the Evil God_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/the-defeated-saintess-is-on-a-journey-to-tame-the-evil-god/)
(战败圣女今天也在驯服邪神的路上) is a gender-bender yuri mystery/fantasy web
novel about Xing Mo, one of the guardians of the Citadel, being suddenly and
forcefully recruited to the side of an “Evil God” names Aurora. Much of the
series is presented as a detective work, uncovering clues of conspiracies
throughout the city and world at large, and gradually scales from a mysterious
serial killer to cover ups of wars between the gods. The setting is interesting
enough on its own, being a sort of steampunk fantasy world where magic is built
atop the “strings” that control nature being “played” by the magicians with
their wands. It has some flavor of a cosmic horror in its presentation of
inherently harmful information regarding the gods, where not only does gazing
upon the visage cause mental strain, but simply learning a truth about the world
could drive a high level magician mad if not outright killing them. The more
romantic aspects between Xing Mo and Aurora are rather slow, barely scratching
the surface of a relationship in the first book, as the two really know nothing
about each other whatsoever at the beginning. I’m sure there will be a lot more
development on that front going forward, as I’ve only just begun to read the
second book before writing this. The chapter numbers are rather confusing, I’ve
read up to book 2 ch. 2 pt. 2, approximately ch. 142, thus far and am thus
willing to give this an early 7/10 with potential to reach 8/10 soon.

A lot of media has this like a priori derivation of queerness, avoiding any
commonly known terms and frequently outright ignoring the possibility of
homophobia or the like. What’s with that? I know, okay. Anyway, I’ve decided to
completely rework the structure of what I’m writing myself, so it’s been delayed
further… just kidding, not having reworked it was really keeping me from making
progress so I’ll have releasable chapters a lot sooner now.

## Footnotes

[^fn1]:
    Also, the first translator for the series just posted the chapters on their
    WordPress blog, along with other series they’re translating, so reading it
    is a huge pain in the neck.
