---
author: una
entry: 11
layout: post
permalink: /pr/11
series: pr
series_index: 11
stylized_title: Procrastination Report №11
tags: anime blog manga movie novel tv
title: Report №11
---

Okay, honestly, I just kept forgetting to actually clean up notes to make a
publishable report. I do take notes! Not, like, meticulously, just like when I
finish reading something I write down my impressions before I put them together
for these blogs.

[_The Water Magician_](https://anidb.net/anime/19097) (水属性の魔法使い) is a
fantasy isekai anime about a boy named Ryou being reincarnated in the untamed
woodlands of a magical world. I decided to check it out because a friend had
asked where to find translations of the manga, wanting to read past the anime,
but the manga adaptation is currently only about as far as the anime gets into
the story anyway. Plus, it has an English dub, so I could watch it while
drawing, I don’t know if I would have finished it otherwise. The initial premise
is that dead horse of “I just want a ‘slow life,’ but things keep happening!”
Not that it’s particularly bad, but you know these guys are all liars, right?
You can totally just mind your own business in life, actually, if you want to.
The magic system also falls into that notion of incantations being a
convention more than a necessity, but people have become overly reliant on them.
The series, of course, also has a designated waifu, Sara, an elf who just likes
reading books or something; I like her, a shame she’s clearly taken. At least
it’s an easy watch, so it’s a 5/10, maybe higher if there wasn’t so much CGI for
the monsters and such. The animation for the opening credits is really good,
weekly episodes really were the greatest curse upon this industry.

[_A Ninja and an Assassin Under One Roof_](https://anidb.net/anime/18596) (忍者
と殺し屋のふたりぐらし) is a borderline[^fn1] CGDCT slice-of-life dark comedy
anime about the runaway ninja Kusagakure Satoko and her assassin
roommate/handler/girlfriend Koga Konoha. There’s a horrible bit at the beginning
about “Leader” living with her “partner” (_koibito_) rather than explicitly
saying girlfriend, trying to allow some ambiguity about whether or not the
short-haired woman with the stud earrings going around in a suit complaining
about being unemployed but spending more time on pachinko than job searching is
a lesbian or not. If anything, all this ambiguity leads to is making it clear
Satoko has absolutely no awareness of the world around her, as if getting roped
into eight separate attempts to escape the ninja village wasn’t enough for that.
I’d reckon this show only isn’t classed as yuri because it isn’t necessarily a
romance, because aside from the explicit lesbians, the rest are at least
implicitly homosexual, right? Konoha and Satoko are just like a little trauma
resolution away from making out on screen for twenty minutes straight. Some
reviews I saw complained that Konoha abuses Satoko, which might be the case! I
just didn’t think too much about how the girl who kills people for a living
treats the walking liability that is Satoko, in part because of the slapstick
nature of comedy anime. Anyway, it’s quite funny but sometimes painfully
serious, an obvious 6/10.

[_Chernobyl_](https://www.thetvdb.com/series/chernobyl) is a historical drama
mini-series about the Chernobyl disaster, primarily following the containment
and recovery work of Valery Legasov. As a dramatization of a historical event, I
would say it does a wonderful job of balancing historical accuracy and
amplifying the dramatic structure. Perhaps most notable is the modifications to
Legasov’s character, stripping down a lot of his life to simplify his character,
as well as the addition of Ulana Khomyuk as a representation of the multitude of
people assisting him as a single character. This obviously isn’t a genre I
concern myself with too often, but it was an enjoyable experience. I like the
cool, wet aesthetic of the whole series. I feel like I should say something
about the music, but I don’t remember anything about it so it was probably quite
good? Anyway, 7/10.

[_Defeated and Captures, This Monster Girl Refuses to Become a Loyal Pet_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/defeated-and-captured-this-monster-girl-refuses-to-become-a-loyal-pet/)
(战败被捉，魔兽小姐不想沦为忠犬) is a gender-bender yuri fantasy web novel about
a mimic that takes on the form and regrets of a betrayed imperial prince,
Neph,[^fn2] who has been turned into a girl in his last moments for some reason.
This series is basically as close to lesbian erotica as you can publish in
China, with plenty of BDSM (particularly pet play, bondage, impact play, and
asphyxiation). Neph is very interesting as a character, she gains some memories
from those she consumes, and this frequently affects her personality throughout
the story. If anything, it’s a huge shame how little we see of her acting as the
original prince, outside of her loathing of both adventurers and the current
empire. This also leads to the series almost completely lacking any sort of
gender-bender tropes, given that Neph is only briefly confused why she has the
memories of a man but not the body of one. Her relationship with Ophelia, more
or less the driving core of the story, has some _very_ extreme ups and downs,
averaging out to Neph just being a _tsundere_ in denial about how much of a
masochist she is. When I say “masochist” here, I don’t mean in the typical “guy
who does something even though it’s difficult way,” I mean she textually cums
from getting choked and whipped. Honestly, it’s a shame that she stops pissing
herself as much in the later chapters. A bigger letdown is that, despite Neph
complaining constantly about Ophelia being a “riddler,” the two of them never
really open up to each other about anything unless they’re cornered into it,
like Neph just never explains why she wants to kill the emperor with her own
hands. As you might be able to tell from “the empire,” the world is a bit bland
with the empire conducting evil schemes, the kingdom discriminating against
demihumans, the holy kingdom built on the church, and the supposedly neutral
territory full of adventurers built around a dungeon. The ending feels a bit
rushed, but it’s hard to say there’s a flaw in that; it’s normal for the small
problems in a story to all share the same larger root, but it is nicer to have
some gradual resolution before defeating the big boss. The side stories at the
end meant to tie everyone’s stories together are cute, though, I like that Neph
and Ophelia start a bakery with their magically birthed daughter. All around,
I’d give this one a 7/10, maybe I just think it was really hot.

[_The Accountant_](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt2140479/) is an action movie
about an accountant, pseudonymously Christian Wolff, who does the forensic
accounting for various criminal organizations. True to its genre, the movie is
incredibly fast paced, interspersed with flashbacks to Christian’s past to
explain his situation and behavior. The actual plot is just him trying to do one
last above board job before moving on to the next place, but it turns out to be
way more complicated. Very exciting, I do just have one question: why would you
make a sequel to that? No, I know. I know why. Point is, there isn’t much to
say. It’s pretty neat, 6/10.

[_Daddy, Please Let Me Be Your Fan!_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/daddy-please-let-me-be-your-fan/)
(爸爸，请让我单推吧!) is a gender-bender _yuri_ urban fantasy web novel about
the great hero Chu Yuanqing getting fired from his job and becoming a magical
girl about it. Having saved the world and reset the timeline already, Yuanqing
just wants to support his daughter financially after his death, but finding a
job that pays well enough for his life insurance policy is pretty tough, luckily
he has a transformation skill and can just decide to permanently become a cute
girl! Hurray! The plot then centers around the job she finds, being an idol
competition show, but it makes it very clear that there’s _something_ off about
this show. First, they suddenly introduce international licensing for the idol
industry, where anyone getting kicked off this show will be barred from getting
a license _for life_. Then, there’s the psychological cruelty of the show, all
of it publicly exposed via live streams before the edited episodes air.
Honestly, the secret isn’t that well hidden so I won’t count it as spoilers: the
show is for training magical girls to fight off the things that Yuanqing had
originally defeated to save the world the first time around. Regardless, magical
girl _yuri_ slaps, of course you gotta help “replenish mana” daily\~! The other
“mystery” of the series is who Yuanqing’s daughter’s mom is, but that one also
doesn’t take much to figure out. I don’t care much for mystery anyway, so I give
it a 6/10 at chapter 278, might continue it later. Good luck trying to read this
yourself, the translator took it down to sell as a series of ebooks on Amazon,
lmao.

[_Transmigrated as a Cannon Fodder Villain? I Became a Yandere Loli_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/transmigrated-as-a-cannon-fodder-villain-i-became-a-yandere-loi/)
(穿越炮灰反派？我化身病娇萝莉) is a gender-bender _isekai_ _yuri_ web novel
about a man dying and finding himself transmigrated into the world of a web
novel, as the cannon fodder character Chi Xiaocheng, right as she has kidnapped
the female lead. Xiaocheng decides that the only way out of the inevitable
followup to her kidnapping of Su Tao is to get Su Tao herself on her side… by
claiming this was all out of love! Xiaocheng “acts” out the role of a _yandere_
with the support of her very own system, “pretending” to be in love with Su Tao,
yet the way Su Tao reacts and treats her still made me really feel that
heartache of realizing someone just doesn’t feel the same way about you. This
series is basically impossible to discuss without spoilers,[^fn3] but I’ll try
to keep those to a minimum. I will say, I know it’s part of her “act,” I know
it’s all part of a plan, but Xiaocheng’s suicide note made me fucking sob. This
series made me cry at least twice, definitely a record. The levels of what is
true or not in the story are very fun for a while, until the questions get
answered and the series relies more on the relationships than the mystery. The
way that Xiaocheng justifies “pretending” to always have loved Su Tao to make
her act more realistic, but it just turns out to be the only reasonable way to
justify the “original character”’s actions in the first place is just one of the
more compelling aspects of the overarching theme that the “original author”
could force things to happen but couldn’t force people to feel certain ways. Chi
Xiaocheng and Su Tao’s relationship obviously improves over time, it’s a
romance, but it loses the spark from the beginning. Su Tao was absurdly innocent
at the beginning, it takes 500 chapters for her to realize there’s more to
intimacy than kissing and holding hands, but then they just start fucking all
the time? I was really hoping for more out of the dynamic where Xiaocheng knows
how to fuck but is a bottom, whereas Su Tao is supposed to be the top while not
knowing anything about this. Also, Xiaocheng fed Su Tao her blood _a lot_, but
that just stopped coming up? Really fumbled the opportunity for her to appease
Su Tao’s obsessiveness by offering some blood, right? Anyway, got bored after
reading up to chapter 612, it’s a 6/10, I guess.

Since I haven’t been publishing these as I should have been, I actually have a
lot of notes saved up! This is already around 2000 words, so I don’t actually
want to publish them all at once! Thus, I’ll just release these week by week
catching up on my notes, okay? Maybe next time I can start talking about the
other video games I’ve been playing.

## Footnotes

[^fn1]:
    This is mostly a joke, it’s basically Cute Girls Doing Cute Things, but the
    original manga is _not_ published in a Kirara magazine so does it really
    count? Plus, is murder cute? Only sometimes!

[^fn2]:
    The name is kind of complicated, The translations list the prince’s name as
    Naev and the mimic’s name as Nymph, possibly for clarity. However, there is
    no indication that she changed the name in any way, not that I read the
    raws, so I’m just sticking with the middle-ground name of Neph.

[^fn3]:
    Like, it's actually tragic yuri time loop shit, but that's hella spoilers!
