---
author: chloe
entry: 4
lang: en
layout: post
series: heterodox
series_index: 4
stylized_title: >
  The Family as an Economic&nbsp;Institution
tags: economics
title: The Family as an Economic Institution
---

_Poorly researched claims about the history of the family but I will not be
taking criticism at this time, please direct all complaints to @unaxiii\_ on
twitter dot com. A response to Melinda Cooper’s_ Family Values _(2017), heavily
relying on the history of patriarchal property relations from_ Debt: The First
5,000 Years by David Graeber. _I rambled but thanks for listening._
{:.no-indent}

Being one of the primary means people have for organizing themselves for
purposes such as child-rearing, food preparation and consumption, and rest and
recuperation, the family serves as both the starting point and ending point of
almost all "economic" activity. Workers are quite literally produced by the
family, the goal of a large portion of "economy" in the abstract sense is the
provisioning of people with food and other necessities, and families are where
such consumption is done. All of society and economic activity is built on a
foundation of unpaid labor performed in the household, largely by women. It
would be ludicrous to try and argue that "families"—at least in some sense of
the term—are not an economic institution; certainly households are without
question an economic agent, and for thousands of years definitions of "family"
have been tied up in land-ownership, with patriarchal land-owners at the center
of it all. In patriarchal societies, the family serves as a measure of the
relative power of their male head of household; how many servants they command,
how many children they have, how obedient their household members are to them
serve as a basis of power, and the model of the patriarchal family became a
blueprint for paternalistic states, empires, corporations, and property
relations over the last several thousand years. While the institutions of the
patriarchal family and property existed prior to it, of note here is Roman
property law and citizenship rights being the basis for modern European and
Anglo-American (and of course the many places around the world colonized by
Europeans) patriarchal families and ideas of the father as head of household,
and its influence on the notion of citizenship and political and economic rights
and freedoms. Modern cultural conceptions of what a man is allowed to do with
his wife and children—whether or not he "owns" them and what that entails—go
back to debates over Roman property law, as it was being interpreted by medieval
European legal scholars with a renewed interest in ancient Rome. As capitalism
became a dominant mode of power in the world, many people flocked to cities in
search of work in the new factories, and new forms of housing and sexual
division of labor created new standards for what a family was under capital.
{:.dropcap}

During the Keynesian, "regulated capitalism" era "the family" changed
significantly for much of the population. The rise of the welfare state, the
automobile, the highway, and suburbanization in America increased the
possibility for single-family home-ownership for a number of American middle and
working class families. This allowed for the spread of the concept of the
nuclear family (what Cooper describes as "Fordist"), a single-family household
consisting of a patriarchal, breadwinner father, a mother who serves as a
housekeeper, and two and a half kids. Along with those nuclear families came
real estate, pensions, family-based health insurance, college funds, welfare
benefits, and much more. Notably, such luxuries were almost exclusively
available to white people, and of course largely only available to people who
found themselves in such Fordist family units. During the neoliberal era, two
divergent trends have emerged among families. The first is that the cracks in
the stability of the nuclear family as a model for social organization began to
show. As feminist movements advocated for the rights of women to enter the
workforce, seek divorce, have more autonomy over their lives, nuclear family
structures became less common. As Black liberation movements sought inclusion
into civil society, welfare, and reparations it became clear that providing this
middle class "American dream" to more than a select few was hardly economically
or politically feasible in the eyes of the ruling classes. Over the last 50
years, fewer and fewer "true" nuclear families exist over time and family
frequently has come to include single parents, divorced parents,
multi-generational homes, multi-family housing, LGBTQ parents, polyamorous
relationships, chosen families, and so forth. On the other hand, the second
trend regarding the notion of family in the neoliberal era is that, even though
the nuclear family as a concept was a relatively recent invention, was only ever
available for a select few members of the population, and quickly became
unsustainable after just a couple generations, propaganda revering the nuclear
family as "traditional", as the paragon of what home life should be, and what
life had always been like for most people, has been a dominant force in
conservative and neoliberal economic thinking around welfare, women's rights,
children's rights, healthcare, schooling, city planning, unions, retirement, and
home ownership. In the eyes of neoliberal and neoconservative thinkers, "the
family" is always under attack by feminists, radicals, sexual deviants, single
mothers "leeching" off of welfare, irresponsible fathers abandoning their
families, and countless other boogeymen, usually with racist undertones and
almost always with outright misogynist and homophobic overtones.
{:.no-indent}

Melinda Cooper, in the first chapter of _Family Values: Between Neoliberalism 
and the New Social Conservativism,_ details this history of changes to the 
family in the neoliberal era, and describes various other authors analyses, 
showing that even well-meaning writers frequently fall into the traps of 
aggrandizing the Fordist family as a goal for modern social movements to seek 
to restore, and/or blaming social movements of the latter half of the 20th 
century (largely feminists, but also gay liberation, Black liberation, student 
movements, etc.)
for selling out to capital simply because parts of those movements have been
co-opted by capitalism for its own ends. She also notes that in the neoliberal
era, the distribution of wealth and resources has far less to do with the wages
people are paid (in particular the "Fordist family wage", the wages and benefits
a male head of household would be paid in the Keynesian era with the expectation
that it would support his family and some degree of upward mobility), and far
more to do with inheritance. And the ability of children to inherit wealth from
parents being the primary factor in determining wealth and income distribution
has direct implications as to the economic viability of single-parent
households, same-sex couples, polyamorous relationships, chosen families, or
god-forbid people simply born into poor households. The rich are born rich and
stay rich, the poor are born poor and stay poor. Women are respected only
insofar as they can be incorporated into the labor force and increase
shareholder value. The burden of household labor still falls onto them after
they finish 8 hours at their job which still pays them less than their male
counterparts, and if they can't keep up and need assistance (and especially if
they're Black) they are derided as "welfare queens". Children are an
"investment", the elderly are a "burden", and the machinery of capital marches
onwards.
{:.no-indent}

Cooper, Melinda. _Family Values: Between Neoliberalism and the New Social
Conservatism._ Princeton University Press, 2017.
{:.citation}

Graeber, David. _Debt: The First 5,000 Years._ Melville House, 2011.
{:.citation}
