---
author: una
entry: 12
layout: post
permalink: /pr/12
series: pr
series_index: 12
stylized_title: Procrastination Report №12
tags: blog game
title: Report №12
---

I’ve been playing a lot of video games lately. Because I told my wife that I
would explain “what is _Anno_ and what is _Banished_” in the next _Report_, I
will be putting off talking about all the _yuri_ I’ve been reading to talk about
these games instead.
{:.dropcap}

The broadest way to delineate these two genres, is to explain them as a
confluence of tropes, as is always the case. _Anno_ is a “city builder” game
insofar as you build infrastructure to maintain a populace, which is true for
_Banished_ as well. They diverge when it comes to what this infrastructure
entails, specifically regarding scale. I’d term these “strategy” and “survival”
respectively. _Anno_ focuses on broad industrial supply chains and relations
with NPCs who are doing the same, whereas _Banished_ focuses on micromanagement
of local resources down to the level of placing individual workers. I use these
games as reference points for these “strategic city builder” and “survival city
builder” games as they are often the inspiration of other games in terms of
overall game design, so to that end I’ll explain what aspects of their gameplay
you’d expect to see in other games.
{:.no-indent}

For an _Anno_-like, you’d expect a competition with NPCs, typically with land
divvied up among discrete islands both you and your competitors can claim. Each
island will have specific fertilities and available resource deposits. Residents
of your islands will be treated numerically as overall “workforce,” you don’t
manage immigration so much as you maintain the necessities of households which
will increase or decrease the available workforce per household (this can be
likened to population but isn’t necessarily equivalent). Households are then
divided by class, and a home of one class must meet all requirement at that
class to be upgraded into another class. When it comes to industry, the
workplaces merely need road access (or in some cases commuter port access) to
the residences in which a workforce resides to fulfill its requirements.
Resources generated at a workplace will be delivered to trading posts or
warehouses which share an inventory per island, thus allowing any warehouse to
pull from it as needed.
{:.no-indent}

For a _Banished_-like, you’re mainly contending with the environment itself;
there might be competitors in some regard, bandits and the like, but _Banished_
itself didn’t have such a militaristic element. Each resident has a name, the
exist individually, and they must be housed. Housing can be upgraded, but it
only allows for improved environment and does not determine the class of its
residents. Workplaces must be accessible by their workers, of course, who will
commute from their homes to their work. Resources do not have some mystical
inventory, they must be stored in some location where they will later be
retrieved. Deposits of minerals can be depleted over time, I honestly don’t
recall if this was the case in _Banished_ itself, but it’s common enough in its
successors to note.
{:.no-indent}

[_House of Legacy_](https://store.steampowered.com/app/2503770/House_of_Legacy/)
is a “sandbox strategy game,” where you play the head of a family kicked out of
some place because of some war, you must attempt to then rebuild this clan
somehow. You start out having to manage a single person’s stamina to do as many
gig jobs as possible to earn money to start hiring retainers to do all that for
you. Once you have the funds, you can start investing in shops and farms while
rebuilding your family’s estate. There’s plenty of political management with
relationships with other clans and trying to get smarter people to marry into
your family so you can have all your children pass the imperial exams. I only
played two hours or so thus far, partly because I kept trying to flirt with
girls and some of them brought a harassment case before the local lord to
sentence me to lashings? Is yuri even legal in this game? Anyway, let’s call it
a 7/10, that’s all mostly my fault for trying to play a bimbo build right off
the bat (sacrificed intelligence so I could put the points into beauty).

[_TerraScape_](https://store.steampowered.com/app/2290000/TerraScape/) is a
deck-based puzzle game. I don’t usually play that sort of thing so I gave it a
bit of a try. I don’t really know how to talk about this sort of thing? You pull
cards and they let you build things on tiles that sometimes combine, you gotta
get enough points to earn more card pulls. I played 3 hours because I was on the
phone with my mother and needed something to fidget with, I guess. Let’s call
this one a 5/10, try it if you’re into that kind of thing.

[_New Cycle_](https://store.steampowered.com/app/2198510/New_Cycle/) is a
_Banished_-like set in a post-apocalypse scenario. The aesthetic is fairly neat,
being all survivor camp chic, plus you don’t _need_ to stick to the grid. Roads
aren’t completely necessary for all buildings, but they do also act as power
lines, so you’ll need them for that. I messed up my food supply (I do this in
every game, alright) which made people upset, and because they were upset they
were more susceptible to being upset, thus they were basically rioting about
having been rioting in perpetuity. Sure, if I suddenly increased the standard of
living tenfold, they might have gotten over it, but that kind of sucked. I only
played 2 hours, I really struggle to get into _Banished_ with all the
micromanagement and such… 4/10.

[_Ballads of Hongye: REBORN_](https://store.steampowered.com/app/2656540/Ballads_of_Hongye_REBORN/)
is the $2 Chinese version of _Anno_. It’s got this fun science fantasy vibe;
some people complain about the “Ghibli type” illustrations, but it’s cute and
not actually very Ghibli so much as just _otaku_-like? Managing water as a
resource in an *Anno-*like was definitely a new thing to me, but it’s just
another stat in the spreadsheet, if not for the irrigation canals that can also
be used as fertilizer if you place a pig sty on them. If you aren’t playing the
hardcore mode, forget what it’s called, the Feng Shui mechanic can be disabled,
but I’d argue it’s a much for fun spin on grid-based building than something
like _Anno 117_’s new 45 degree grid. Some buildings want to face some
directions, but they also want the wind and sun to hit the building in certain
ways, literally every building you place is a puzzle… to be fair, given that any
“city builder” game will have area effects, you’ll always have to think about
placement anyway, right? Everyone wants to be near a well, but not _that_ close.
Every building can be upgraded like a bajillion times, which you should be
constantly doing, and residences don’t _just_ upgrade to other classes, they
also get bigger. I played for like 6 hours before the music started getting
really distorted and the computer crashed. 8/10.

[_Manor Lords_](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1363080/Manor_Lords/) is
_Banished_ with _Anno_ characteristics, in my opinion. Everyone starves because
you didn’t plant enough fields in the first twenty seconds of the game and you
don’t get regional wealth to buy vegetable seeds until you upgrade burgage plots
to level 2 which is also why you can’t afford to import any food either. Okay,
that’s just me, I really suck at managing food supplies. Recent updates have
added the need for a continuous supply of tools for building maintenance, which
is just another reason everything is falling apart and nobody wants to work
anymore. There’s castles now, well there have always been manors in _Manor
Lords_, but they got stone walls recently. Did I build a castle? No, I tried to
stop nearby bandits from stealing all my flour by sending a militia to destroy
their camp, which just pissed them off and they burned down my village… twice.
Anyway, I’ve played 23 hours since I got the game a million years ago, mostly
because my wife’s computer struggles with it (the fans almost scream loud enough
to drown out the cries of my starving villagers). 9/10.

[_Laysara: Summit Kingdom_](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1823950/Laysara_Summit_Kingdom/)
is a pretty unique _Anno_-like, inspired by Himalayan cultures. Despite having
social classes, or castes, you don’t need to upgrade residences from one to
another, you just build housing for that caste. Everything is build on the
slopes of mountains, which you can connect to other slopes with bridges or,
like, elevators? Lifts? Those require yaks, you’ll be managing your yak
population about as closely as that of any given caste. Though, you don’t need
to worry _too_ much about population, as you can just make up for workforce by
spending money! The deficit on this mountain is insane. You don’t just get money
from people, you have to give them spots to “offer” “donations,” and those spots
obviously have maintenance costs. Supply chains aren’t exactly _Anno_-like,
since there’s not magical warehouses, you have to denote where any given
building exports to, which does have a range that can be increased with better
roads. Farm fields are quite interesting, since they connect together so each
one can act as if it’s the closest to the road for delivery range. I haven’t
managed to satisfy anyone enough to upgrade residences, but that’s certainly a
thing that can happen. After 1.5 hours, I can still say I’ll definitely be
playing more of this in the future, 8/10.

[_Flotsam_](https://store.steampowered.com/app/821250/Flotsam) is more of a
colony sim, I thought it looked kind of cute so I tried it anyway. Remember how
I said I suck at keeping people fed? They all died. All except one person on my
boat died. I soft-locked the game by letting my doctor starve to death before I
finished the medicine quest. Maybe they didn’t all starve, some of them died of
dehydration, because too many starved to run the desalinator after I finally
remembered to collect tinder to run it. You can get an electric desalinator,
though, don’t know how to run that well enough to still have power for my ship
to move though! Actually, that’s just because too many people died to keep the
power running. Anyway, how did I play 6 hours of that, 5/10.

[_Fabledom_](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1651560/Fabledom/) is,
surprisingly, *Banished-*like. I would have thought it would be more like
_Anno_, honestly. You’re the child of some king and queen who send all their
children off to start their own kingdoms, you can choose to be a prince or
princess and then if you’re gay or weird. Courtship is a fun thing to add to
_Banished_, everyone’s starving while those two guys over there just work in the
tulip field making sure I always have enough tulips to send to the neighboring
princess. Look, she’s really into farming, maybe if I can bag her we’ll have
less issue keeping people fed? The witch’s curse of hunger is _not_ as important
as my love life, stupid fucking “fablings.” At one point, I realized too many of
my residents had too long of commutes, and it was ruining industrial efficiency,
so I fired everyone from their jobs and hired them at new places, I call this
the Great Shift. So many people starved anyway. My soldiers all died because I
didn’t have whatever the hell that troll or ogre or whatever wanted and I had to
fight it… do I just suck at _Banished_? I was doing pretty good at making people
forget how close they lived to mines by placing trees on all the roads, though.
I really like how you can place decorations on top of the roads. It’s not like I
lost, yet, I’ll come back to my save and finish that embassy so I can send more
flowers to my not-yet-girlfriend, giving this a 7/10 after 4 hours of gameplay.

If you expected me to leave a review of _Anno 1800_ itself, after waiting until
the Steam Winter Sale started, fighting with the payment process because the
system was overwhelmed, and having to pay $20 more than expected because they
got my ass and didn’t discount it as much as the last sale… you’re wrong? I’m
not doing that! I played 5 hours then went back to reading _yuri_ because I’m
_still_ not over my last playthrough where I realized I didn’t have all the good
DLC and had to wait to buy the game. I don’t know where the fuck I played it
before, but I definitely had the High Life and Docklands DLC, so it’s not like
I, uh, looted it. Anyway, uh, Happy Hanukkah!
