---
author: una
entry: №1
layout: post
permalink: /pr/1
series: pr
series_index: 1
tags: anime blog manga novel
title: Procrastination Report №1
---

I promise that I was really serious about actually publishing weekly articles
for the [Etymology and Onomastics](http://anarchy.website/eno/) series, I just
got depressed and distracted. To make up for it, I’ve decided that, in any case
where I do not have an article ready for publication, I will instead write up a
report on what I’ve been doing instead of writing the intended article.
Actually, I was originally going to append this report at the end of said
article, but I realized just publishing a report alone is the better option.
This change in approach has led to this initial installment covering _seven_
weeks rather than just one, as any going forward are likely to do. In this case,
and most cases going forward, this report will be in the form of short reviews
of web novels and manga that I have been reading and anime I’ve been watching.
{:.dropcap}

[_Transformed Into a Fallen Princess, I Sell Nuclear Bombs at the Beginner Village_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/transformed-into-a-fallen-princess-i-sell-nuclear-bombs-at-the-beginner-village/)
(变身失落公主, 我在新手村卖核弹) is a bit of a bait and switch, as the titular
notion of the main character (Xiaofeng) selling nuclear weapons in the beginner
village is only relevant for a short period and thereafter only tangentially
relevant. If you’ll pardon minor spoilers for classification purposes, this is a
gender-bender web novel with a “full-dive” VR game that gradually encroaches
into reality (only the players’ attributes do so in this case). Of course, this
also pairs with the fact that the “game world” is, in fact, its own reality. The
lore of that world is relatively interesting, especially from the perspective of
the protagonist playing an NPC fallen princess. Toward the beginning, most of
the hype centers around Xiaofeng’s quest of gathering money, her knowledge of
the players’ mindsets and expectations of games, and her identity as an NPC that
allows her to act as a part of the game. The further the story progresses,
however, the more it becomes an episodic adventure tale, remarkably similar to
[_Reincarnated as a Sword_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/i-was-a-sword-when-i-reincarnated-ln/)
(転生したら剣でした). All around, I give it a 6/10 at ch. 490.

[_How I Lose Bets with My Sadistic Gifted Childhood Friend and She Steals All of My Firsts_](https://www.mangaupdates.com/series/e8rf9ox/shouwaru-tensai-osananajimi-to-no-shoubu-ni-makete-hatsutaiken-o-zenbu-ubawareru-hanashi)
(性悪天才幼馴染との勝負に負けて初体験を全部奪われる話) is a yuri manga about
childhood friends who are also rivals. Komaki is the popular top student and
Wakaba is her gloomy friend who doesn’t want to acknowledge being friends. In
typical rival fashion, Wakaba challenges Komaki over whatever comes to mind,
betting her own dignity on showing that Komaki isn’t _that_ perfect, and
consistently loses. It’s that kind of fighting each other into romance type
development, there’s a lot of “begrudgingly” kissing, and the art is pretty
good. As of vol. 3 ch. 15, I’m giving this one a 6/10.

[_Dumb Mutt Girlfriend_](https://www.mangaupdates.com/series/xvhncsm/dameinu-kanojo)
(ダメ犬彼女) is a yuri manga that follows the “they don’t even recognize me
anymore” revenge relationship path, with “some” BDSM and pet-play. Sakurako used
to be a bookish girl, somehow became upset over Amano’s actions at the time, and
now that she’s unrecognizable (“hot,” I suppose) she wants to show Amano what’s
what. The series is only up to ch. 2 thus far, so I’m giving a preliminary score
of 7/10.

[_Is It Weird for a Guy to Apply to a Witch School?_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/is-it-weird-for-a-guy-to-apply-to-a-witch-school/)
(身为男生志愿填魔女学院很奇怪吗) is a solid 10/10 web novel. The protagonist,
Yan Yuehan[^fn1] or Xiao Han, is reborn into a magical world where everyone aims
to enroll in one of the numerous “Extraordinary Academies.” A key requirement
for enrollment is to have cultivated the talent of “Spirit Vision,” allowing one
to see the Extraordinary, but Xiao Han had awakened this power from birth; this
is, in itself, not unique in their world, their exceptionality is only in not
going completely insane due to their past life establishing a baseline of the
“ordinary.” As suggested by the title, the school Xiao Han joins is the Witch
Academy, where every student becomes a “Preparatory Witch,” essentially a girl
(some distinctions are made in that every Witch is akin to a girl, thereby
having no need for the notion of gender, and that their physique, even in the
Preparatory stage is fundamentally different than that of humans). Xiao Han,
then a girl, is instantly swept out of regular classes to take advantage of her
higher than normal level of “Spirit Vision,” proceeding to embark on one
research project after another. This provides a very exciting approach to the
lore of the series, where every technical aspect is explored to satisfy Xiao
Han’s curiosity while looking down on those who simply hoard magical resources
to flaunt superficial power. Besides the lore, the character development is
amazing; Xiao Han is exposed to the worldview of the Preparatory Witches, the
Extraordinary Witches, and the other Academies throughout the “Main World,”
having to find her own perspective between them. Of course, it’s also yuri, the
relationship between Xiao Han and Bai Yu drags on for hundreds of chapters
before progressing to “girlfriends,” but even then they are both still defining
themselves both as individuals and partners. Honestly, I’m probably only able to
write anything here because I caught up on this series (up to ch. 1389), it’s so
gratifying to read and explore that I can’t stand to read anything else… but I
did try.

[_I Came from the Abyss to Save Humanity Today_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/i-come-from-the-abyss-to-save-humanity-today/)
(来自深渊的我今天也要拯救人类) is not a particularly good web novel and it isn’t
yuri… at least it has a manhua adaptation? Given the premise of the main
character killing himself after losing his fiancée, I was hoping the subsequent
reincarnation as a girl would lead to yuri, due to the implication. On the other
hand, I understand that no editor would allow it to be yuri, due to the
implication.[^fn2] The plot is a mix of that sort of niche genre where the
protagonist is positioned as a villain, joins the supposed “good guys,” then
discovers that the teams aren’t so clear after all and an isekai possession
premise wherein said protagonist takes over the identity of an existing person
in this world and struggles to discover their past and manage their
relationship. I only read up to ch. 194, it’s alright but I just didn’t enjoy it
so I’ll give it a 5/10.

[_The Paranoid Elf Queen Turned Me Into Her Sister_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/the-paranoid-elf-queen-turned-me-into-her-sister/)
(被偏执精灵女王变成了她妹妹) isn’t a particularly good web novel either, but it
is yuri. The terminology used for the world is a bit of a mess, but the basic
setup is that people form teams of “Divine Princesses” who have combat abilities
and “Divine Children” who have leadership and support abilities (such as a
typical analysis technique). The protagonist, Di Lin, is a transmigrator with
the power of a Divine Child, is sought out by the Elf Queen because his soul
matches that of her long lost sister, then is turned into said sister (Theresa)
who is a Divine Princess. Di Lin doesn’t believe his is actually the
reincarnation of this elf princess, so he attempts to retain his initial
identity, but ends up switching between the two for various reasons. The story
is one of Di Lin accepting the identity of Theresa, rediscovering her memories,
and discovering what was missed in the 400 years since she died; there is, of
course, some romance with other girls and hints of past romance, perhaps. I
dropped it pretty close to the end (vol. 4 ch. 24) because I got bored[^fn3] and
didn’t care to reach the end, so it’s a 5/10 as well.

[_Starting as a Manga Editor_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/starting-as-a-manga-editor/)
(从漫画编辑开始) is a web novel about a gacha game illustrator burning out and
waking up as a manga editor named Tang Yao. Between suddenly being a woman,
working in an unfamiliar role, being poor, and having to support her sister
(Tang Xun) through school, Tang Yao has a bit of an existential crisis to work
through as the story carries on. This alternate world seems close to Earth, but
the borders are skewed and the media is just a bit less developed. Tang Yao, on
the other hand, suddenly has a perfect memory and incredible drawing skills
stacked between having been an illustrator and a past of dabbling into drawing
manga. She leverages these abilities to solve her financial issues by predicting
the economic development of mobile games right at the advent of smartphones,
recreating popular manga and games from her past life. It’s a bit of a shame how
consistently she merely copies from her memory, only adapting works slightly,
given how good of a background she’s been given (though it is understandable
that it might be a bit tough for an author to have to imagine dozens of new
works just to sell the story). It’s perhaps more annoying how, to show the
impact of the works, many chapters are essentially narrations of the plots of
manga and games. The insight into the gaming industry and business is neat,
anyway, probably for different reasons to me, as an outsider, than they would be
at home in China: much of her approach to business is based on existing Chinese
companies, so it’s interesting to see a sort of fantastical narration of how
those companies work, whereas for those already intimately familiar with them it
would likely be more interesting to think of how effective they would be in a
world without. There is also some _intense_ will-they-won’t-they action with her
co-worker turned investor turned assistant Li Xue. I’m talking like “the only
reason she isn’t bothered by sudden intimacy is that she’s straight so it isn’t
serious” type development. Anyway, having read up to ch. 290, I’m giving this
one a 6/10 (would be a 7/10 without having to skim through the entire plot of
_Undertale_ to get back to the two girls flirting).

[_Academy’s Drunk Fighter_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/academys-drunk-fighter/)
(아카데미의 취권 고수가 되었다) is a gender-bender isekai into a game world web
novel. The comedic premise of “reincarnated as gag character” doesn’t really
define the tone, as much of the plot revolves around coping with the
consequences of the main character (Aesha)’s build: physical and mental debuffs
when not intoxicated, buffs based on level of inebriation, and, of course,
“drunken fist.” These issues are further exacerbated by Aesha not knowing what
difficulty she’d set for the game and the academy she enters banning alcohol.
The characters are pretty interesting, but the world-building overall just
wasn’t to taste. The magic system is scientific overall, which isn’t inherently
negative, but the portrayal of it isn’t particularly enjoyable; see
[_I Couldn’t Afford to Buy Mana, So I Started Streaming_ ](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/i-couldnt-afford-to-buy-mana-so-i-started-streaming/)(
마나 살 돈 없어서 인방함 \[7/10\])[^fn4] for an example of a scientific magic
system I enjoyed reading about. There’s also some implication of the typical
Korean urban fantasy (and this is urban fantasy with a modern setting) setup of
“gates,” essentially randomly spawned dungeons as portals to other realms, if
you’re into that. I’ll give this a tentative 5/10, but it’s on hold for now at
ch. 26.

[_Basement-Dwelling Loser VTuber_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/basement-dwelling-loser-vtuber/)
(방구석 찐따 버튜버) is a slice-of-life gender-bender reincarnation web novel
about a VTuber. The premise is an introverted 25-year-old Korean man is reborn
as a socially anxious
[_Zainichi_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Koreans_in_Japan) (在日) Korean girl
in Japan, eventually being pushed into debuting as a VTuber in part to overcome
her social issues. I do love a good social anxiety plot and this is more like my
favored
[_Bocchi the Rock!_](https://www.mangaupdates.com/series/ej3cita/bocchi-the-rock)
(ぼっち・ざ・ろっく！\[10/10\]) than something like
[_Komi Can’t Communicate_](https://www.mangaupdates.com/series/z350eqh/komi-san-wa-komyushou-desu)
(古見さんは、コミュ症です。\[5/10\]); on the other hand, series about VTubers,
or streaming in general, can be real hit-or-miss. The prototypical VTuber
webnovel at this point is probably
[_VTuber Legend_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/im-a-vtuber-but-i-forgot-to-stop-the-stream-and-became-a-legend/)
(VTuber なんだが配信切り忘れたら伝説になってた \[5/10\]), which I did read and
mostly enjoyed; but, as a Korean series, this work consistently sets out to
compare, and contrast, itself to the genre of “TS Broadcast.” The typical setup
for those sorts of series is that the protagonist finds themselves suddenly
becoming a girl, starts live-streaming, and usually gains a buff to their
reaction time, analytical skills, etc.; most recent example I was reading,
before all the Novelpia series translations got DMCA’d was
[_It’s Not That Kind of Malicious Broadcast_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/its-not-that-kind-of-malicious-broadcast/)
(그런 악질 방송 안ㅣ에요 \[6/10\]).[^fn5] This series is very much not actually
within that genre, it’s just important context, if anything it is more
comparable to a sort of VTuber _Bocchi the Rock!_, just without the idea that
she could do any better without social pressure. Similar to my issues with
_Academy’s Drunk Fighter_, I really do find long descriptions of games within a
story to be boring; this is funny because the typical complaint about
live-streaming related stories is the inclusion of fictional forum threads
discussing the characters, which I don’t mind at all. Oh, this also gets a yuri
tag, or maybe _baekhap_ (백합) since it’s Korean, so a 5/10 at ch. 96 (put this
one on hold as well).

[_\#Gyaru to Gyaru no Yuri_](https://myanimelist.net/manga/182734) (\#ギャルとギ
ャルの百合) is a yuri one-shot manga about two gyaru who decide to date “for a
year.” The way they treat their relationship is very amusing, it’s
light-hearted, almost a joke, but maybe that’s just the way they express it. It
cute and isn’t very long, an easy 7/10.

[_I Became the Heroine’s Terminally Ill Older Sister_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/i-became-the-heroines-terminally-ill-older-sister/)
(여주인공의 시한부 언니가 되었습니다) is a possession isekai web novel in a
similar vein to villainess reincarnation type series, though the “original work”
in this case is a web novel, wherein the main character takes on the identity of
someone who bullies or abuses the protagonist of the “original work” but chooses
to rectify this behavior. The main character, Yurisiel, has a fantasy disease—in
this case _not enough_ mana rather than too much as seen in many works—which per
the original setting leads to her death before her adopted sister, Irene, is
reunited with her biological family, taking out her stress of her impending
death and the loss of her parents on Irene, thus establishing the Irene’s tragic
backstory. Since she has, instead, chosen to be nice, the novel is more about
her suffering with her illness while her sister and childhood friend constantly
worry about her. There’s a lot of drama around illness, misunderstandings, and
secrets, which was pretty interesting until a lot of things started being
cleared up, at which point the story just kind of lost its spark to me. Overall,
it’s fine yuri, so I’m giving it a 5/10[^fn6] despite dropping it at ch. 98.

[_CITY THE ANIMATION_](https://anidb.net/anime/18874) is a comedy anime adapted
from a manga by Arawi Keiichi (あらゐけいいち), also known for
[_Nichijou_](https://anidb.net/anime/8168) (日常). AniDB describes the series as
“surreal-slapstick” which does seem to be the case, with a similar gag format to
_Nichijou_ but a different setting. I haven’t read the original work, so I can’t
really give a critique of it as an adaptation, but as an anime it is thus far up
to par with _Nichijou_, as is to be expected from a work by the same mangaka
adapted by the same studio. There’s only been one episode aired so far (with
simulcast English dub), so I won’t even give a preliminary rating, but I’m
excited to watch more going forward.

[_BADGIRL_](https://anidb.net/anime/18716) (ばっどがーる) is a CGDCT comedy
anime adapted from a 4-koma manga. It’s probably only tagged CGDCT because the
original work was published in _Manga Time Kirara Carat_, otherwise the “cute
things” being done by the “cute girls” are seemingly just “being gay.”[^fn7]
Yuutani Yuu wants her crush, discipline committee chairman Mizutori Atori,
to pay attention to her, so she tries acting like the titular “bad girl.” She’s
not very good at it; like, she doesn’t _actually_ pierce her ears:,she just
attaches binder clips to them; she doesn’t _actually_ dye her hair, she just
wears extensions, though it is odd that this somehow circumvents the rules;
those sorts of thing. Again, I haven’t read the original work, so no comparison,
as an anime on its own the quality is alright (though the modern stylization of
hair gradients really clashes with the whole notion that having dyed hair is
against the school rules). This also started airing recently, so again no
scoring.

[*From VTuber*♂ *to VTuber*♀](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/from-vtuber%E2%99%82-to-vtuber%E2%99%80/?pg=13#myTable)
(버튜버♂에서 버튜버♀가 되기까지) is a _psychological_ gender-bender yuri web
novel about a VTuber, Han Yeoreum becoming a girl. This series is probably the
first “woke up as a girl one morning” type gender-bender to really make me think
of the [_fantastique_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fantastique) nature of the
genre, especially with the way the main character’s condition is explained. The
way it narrates twins inevitably switching genders isn’t like it’s explaining
the lore to you, but like that’s just how it is, y’know? The only time it does
get a bit rigorous about it is when Toya (Yeoreum’s on-line friend, potential
girlfriend) explains the cultural differences between Korea and Japan regarding
twins. It’s kind of nice. Given how the gender swap is treated, it’s funny to
see her having white hair and red eyes treated more as her having albinism and
suffering with the sensitivity that comes along with it than just “because it’s
cute.” Anyway, it’s mostly a story about getting over losing everything and 
finding people who will support you along the way; it’s painful at the start, 
but more wholesome later on (though there are still some heart-wrenching 
moments here and there) so a solid 7/10 at ch. 217.

Reading all this has actually given me a good number of ideas for a new series
of my own. I’ve been really putting off a web novel I’d intended to write
previously due to being far too invested in perfection, so going with the flow
and deriving influence from series I’m enjoying has really eased up on that
pressure. I don’t know if this will actually pan out; I’ve got so many
characters and plot points written up it’s starting to seem feasible, though.

## Footnotes

[^fn1]:
    Very fun note about this is that the author’s pen name is also Yan Yuehan (
    杨月涵); though, for some ungodly reason, the translations say Yuelan
    instead, which makes the Xiao Han nickname confusing. Speaking of the
    author, I’m convinced they’ve tried to write this story repeatedly, often
    getting only 3 chapters in, going by their SFACG profile.

[^fn2]:
    The implication, for those curious, is that one could reasonably imagine a
    plot where the main character kills themselves after losing a lover, then
    meets said lover again in another world. It’s compelling, but it does carry
    the idea of more or less promoting suicide.

[^fn3]:
    There’s an author note mixed into the series somewhere like 80% through that
    implies the author originally intended to stop writing it, then they
    continued, all the questions opened up earlier start getting rapid answers,
    and the whole thing kinda feels rushed at the end.

[^fn4]:
    The translations of this series got DMCA’d right when I was thinking of
    catching up on it after mentioning it here. Sad.

[^fn5]:
    This series was actually pretty fun for how it portrayed the mental burden
    of possession isekai. Much of its premise is actually built around a
    specific game, the MC being sent to a world where said game is still in its
    infancy, and the meta of the game being at odds with the MC’s perception
    with it. It’s rather fun, a shame it got taken down :(

[^fn6]:
    “It’s fine so 5/10.” Ok, to explain how I rate things. Everything is a 5/10
    by default, then the score goes up or down from there, depending on how
    _memorably_ good or bad it is. If I think back to a series three months
    later and can’t remember a single detail, or I do remember it’s just like
    “oh this or that happened” then it’s a 5/10 still. _Goblin Slayer_ is a 2/10
    to me, because all I remember is that it was kind of average but opened with
    a rape scene for shock value. _Bocchi the Rock!_ is a 10/10 because I think
    about it constantly and will randomly remember parts I enjoyed before
    checking for updates to the manga or announcements regarding season two.

[^fn7]:
    It’s always amazing how CGDCT is technically separate from yuri; because it
    isn’t romance, I suppose? Characters are frequently openly lesbian, but
    that’s never really the point?

*[BDSM]: Bondage, Discipline, Sadism, Masochism
*[CGDCT]: Cute Girls Doing Cute Things
*[TSF]: Trans-Sexual Fiction
