---
author: chloe
entry: 5
lang: en
layout: post
series: heterodox
series_index: 5
stylized_title: >
  “Globalization”
subtitle: The Misnomer of the Century
tags: economics
title: “Globalization” - The Misnomer of the Century
---

The production and distribution of goods and services has always been a global
phenomenon. It would in fact be quite hard to argue to the contrary. From long
range networks of exchange spanning continents to human migration and travel
including traversing oceans from thousands of years, "globalization" seems
almost like the norm rather than the exception. It seems almost more strange
that we consider it a purely modern phenomenon rather than to treat it as the
default state. But modern, neoliberal capitalism has made "globalization" a
central tenet of its political program. On paper what this modern globalization
means is the elimination of barriers to international trade and creation of a
"global" market of free trade. In reality, "globalization" in this modern sense
is less about removing barriers between nations in an abstract sense and more
about removing barriers for the movement of capital and commodities between
nations while putting more heavy restrictions on the movement of people within
them. In this sense "globalization" is almost a misnomer, as there is no
discordance between globalization and heavy restrictions on immigration and
travel. The goal of "globalization", paired with neoliberal deregulation and
austerity policies, is to create a system by which the people of the so-called
"third world" are so impoverished and desperate that they will accept any work
they can get; extracting resources and producing commodities to be shipped as
the spoils of conquest to the imperial core. All the while restrictions on the
freedom of movement for these people leaves them physically trapped in the
system.
{:.dropcap}

According to Quinn Slobodian, neoliberalism and globalization can be seen less
of as a project of eliminating barriers to global free markets and more as a
project of solidifying the positions of certain nations and capital groups above
others in reaction to anti-imperialist, nationalist movements in the "third
world". Throughout the latter half of the 20th century, various social movements
in the global south made attempts at economic independence, nationalization of
key industries, expanding democratic institutions, and providing for the needs
of their people. In response to this, American and European corporations and
governments utilized institutions such as the World Trade Organization (WTO) and
International Monetary Fund (IMF), and frequently direct military action as
well, to impose austerity, negotiate for free trade, and privatize industry.
Slobodian emphasizes that this is not a project of market "liberalization" but
instead a re-negotiation of the power relations between capitalist empires in a
"post"-colonial world, using these global institutions as the means to
consolidate power in their favor.
{:.no-indent}

The aftermath of globalization in the global south has been nothing short of
disastrous. Imposed through violence, and resulting in poverty, corruption, and
ecological destruction, this modern globalization has created numerous crises
around the world, with very few successes to its name. In Chile, mining,
forestry, and agriculture have been successful industries, but most of the
wealth generated from this extraction has gone directly to corporations in the
global north, with most of them dodging what little taxes there were to be paid
on their profits. The news isn't all bad though, resistance to these policies
have existed from the very beginning, and in recent years has culminated in
significant electoral victories. While I personally wouldn't recommend relying
on an election to change the world, the ability for politicians to get elected
on a platform of opposing neoliberalism and globalization is a positive
indicator of the power of people over corporations.
{:.no-indent}

Henderson, Elizabeth T., Abhilasha Srivastava, Arthur MacEwan, and Jawied
Nawabi. _Real World Globalization, 21st Ed,_ 2022.
{:.citation}

Slobodian, Quinn. “Making Sense of Neoliberalism.” Harvard University Press
Blog, March 15, 2018. Accessed June 6, 2025.<br/>
<https://harvardpress.typepad.com/hup_publicity/2018/03/making-sense-of-neoliberalism-quinn-slobodian.html>.
{:.citation}

Slobodian, Quinn, and Dieter Plehwe. “Neoliberalism Beyond the Heartlands.”
_ProMarket,_ October 20, 2022. Accessed June 6, 2025.<br/>
<https://www.promarket.org/2022/10/21/neoliberalism-beyond-the-heartlands/>.
{:.citation}
