---
author: una
entry: 7
layout: post
permalink: /pr/7
series: pr
series_index: 7
stylized_title: Procrastination Report №7
tags: anime blog novel
title: Report №7
---

This report officially makes more Procrastination Reports than Etymology &
Onomastics articles published. This was to be expected, I suppose.
{:.dropcap}

[_I Was Reincarnated as the 7th Prince So I can Take My Time Perfecting My Magical Ability Season 2_](https://anidb.net/anime/18694)
(転生したら第七王子だったので, 気ままに魔術を極めます 第 2 期) is the sequel to
a comedy reincarnation fantasy anime about a sorcerer who loved magic despite a
lack of ability who was reincarnated with a strong magical bloodline as Lloyd,
the seventh prince of the Kingdom of Saloum. The series scratches some of the
same itch as
[_Is It Weird for a Guy to Apply to a Witch School?_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/is-it-weird-for-a-guy-to-apply-to-a-witch-school/)
(身为男生志愿填魔女学院很奇怪吗 [10/10]) with the focus on studying and
developing magic, but it certainly isn’t yuri. Of course, anime are easier to
watch than books are to read for the most part so I can put up with the lack of
yuri. Anyway, as a followup to an adaptation I can only really say that the
quality has thus far remained consistent, spectacular visuals. I must emphasize
the question on everyone’s mind however: why’d they give that boy hips like
that? The first season has an English dub, but I don’t believe there’s a
simulcast of the second season dub, so I just watched the subbed version. At
episode 7/12, I’d say this retains the previous seasons rating of 6/10.

[_I Became a Witch in a World Full of Urban Legends_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/i-became-a-witch-in-a-world-full-of-urban-legends/)
(在充满怪谈的世界里成为魔女) is an urban fantasy gender-bender light novel about
a guy named Lu Yibei kind of becoming a witch. The “urban legends” part of the
title sort of sets you up for the world it’s in, one of those types where the
nights have gotten longer and the world is full of mysterious beings, like
[_Demon Sword Maiden_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/demon-sword-maiden/)
(妖刀姬 [5/10]). Yibei has the ability to see said beings, kind of like a
[_Mieruko-chan_](https://www.mangaupdates.com/series/400bgix/mieruko-chan) (見え
る子ちゃん [8/10]) situation. Of course, at one point he becomes _involved_ in
these sorts of things, stumbling across some sort of power that turns him into a
witch (essentially like a local lord of urban legends). In classic fashion, he
was destined to be involved because of family history, even pushing him into
joining the agency that tracks down urban legends which gives the plot a bit of
detective flare, y’know like
[_Mysterious Disappearances_](https://www.mangaupdates.com/series/bb20yg1/kaii-to-otome-to-kamikakushi)
(怪異と乙女と神隠し [5/10]). The gender-bender part is the type I don’t
particularly like, where the protagonist is only sometimes a girl for
utilitarian purposes, bleh. The series does have a _manhua_ adaptation, but it
more or less removes the part where Yibei has facial paralysis and thus isn’t
very expressive. I just decided to catch up on the series, because it’s been a
while, but I’m at ch. 279 and still can’t decide if I like it or not... uh,
5/10.

[_I May Be a Guild Receptionist, but I’ll Solo Any Boss to Clock Out on Time_](https://anidb.net/anime/18118)
(ギルドの受付嬢ですが, 残業は嫌なのでボスをソロ討伐しようと思います) is an
action fantasy anime, adapted from a light novel, about Alina Clover, a
receptionist at the Adventurer’s Guild who would rather the dungeons be
conquered in a quick and efficient manner to reduce the piles of paperwork
generated in the meantime. The setting and lore is that sadly common setup
wherein some ancient fallen civilization left behind the fruits of their
research into greater power in the form of dungeons, thus things like “relics”
bear some significance in connecting the modern adventurer to this past. There’s
also the “skills” situation, a fairly typical “everyone gets just one” type
world, but it isn’t _entirely_ clear in the anime the exact mechanisms of
“awakening” or “acquiring” these. There’s some sort of grade to them, higher
grades completely dominating any below them, and our protagonist, of course,
received the highest grade skill from the gods to fulfill her wish to rid the
world of anything that might cause her to work overtime. It’s got a sort of
romance between Alina and Jade Scrade, the leader and tank of the guild’s
favorite “Silver Sword” party, which is somewhere between tsundere and a
legitimate desire for him to stop taking up her rare time off. There’s also some
mystery, of course, basically a replacement for the typical “cult that worships
that ancestors who did bad things.” Most importantly, there’s a pink-haired girl
who suffers constantly, plus she’s the healer! Perfect Una self-insert
character. The animation leaves a little to be desired in the action scenes, but
part of that is the responsibility of Alina’s weapon being a massive hammer.
Fantasy war-hammers simply do not leave much room for good action, in my
opinion. The English dub was fantastic, though, the banter was all very well
done, basically carrying the series for me. I’ll give this one a 6/10 despite
the overall worldbuilding and plot being exceedingly mediocre. I did read some
of the manga a while back, basically forgot about it.

[_Mono_](https://anidb.net/anime/18546) is a slice-of-life CGDCT anime, adapted
from a _4-koma_ manga, about a photography club. Amamiya Satsuki joined the club
out of admiration for her senior, Makinohara, and proceeded to only take
pictures of said girl taking pictures of scenery… which all came to an end when
Makinohara graduated. The club is then left with Satsuki and the girl who took
pictures of her taking pictures of her dear senpai: Kiriyama An. It’s something
of a “club revival” type series, but there’s also the part where they know a
_mangaka_ who’s writing a _4-koma_ about some high school girls in a photography
club. I’ve watch 4/12 episodes so far, it’s been pretty good all around, so it’s
a tentative 6/10.

I haven’t really been reading much this week, certainly haven’t been writing
much… at least publishable stuff. I was playing Minecraft, thinking about maybe
just making my own mod, and working on some of the worldbuilding stuff for my
own fantasy series. This one’s a lot shorter than other ones, I think, maybe I
should start including hentai as well… actually pretty sure I just slept half
the week.

*[CGDCT]: Cute Girls Doing Cute Things
