---
author: una
entry: 13
layout: post
permalink: /pr/13
series: pr
series_index: 13
stylized_title: Procrastination Report №13
tags: blog game
title: Report №13
---

Procrastinated on compiling procrastination reports again, but at least that
means I have more than enough to write about, right? If I can even remember half
the shit I read two months ago, lol.
{:.dropcap}

[_How Could a Human Mage Be the Demon God Emperor’s Daughter?_ ](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/how-could-a-human-mage-be-the-demon-god-emperors-daughter/)(人类魔法师怎么会是魔神皇的女儿)
is a gender-bender yuri web novel about the mage Mo Li being defeated by the
demon queen and turned into her daughter. Normally, for the “defeated” type
gender-bender series, the villain lacks successors and only gains one by
converting the enemy hero, which isn’t the case here as Mo Li, now Li Mo, has
siblings already. The pacing of this series is absolutely breakneck, with
exposition flying by so quickly that I swear they’re just skipping necessary
parts to fall back on established tropes. The memory loss aspect typical to
these works is present here as well, but the approach is shaken up a bit by the
plot beginning before said memories are regained as is the norm. Regardless, Li
Mo is still more accepting of her situation due to having acclimated before
regaining her memories. She also gets close to people absurdly quickly, which
isn’t too appealing for a story, to me. There were only 189 chapters when I
started reading this, so I read them all (translator dropped at ch. 116, but I
have my ways), so I can only give it a preliminary review of something like
4/10.

[_Story About Buying My Classmate Once a Week_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/story-about-buying-my-classmate-once-a-week/)
(週に一度クラスメイトを買う話) is a yuri web novel about Miyagi paying her
classmate, Sendai, 5000 yen once a week for her time. It’s painfully opposite to
the previous web novel; rather than simply hitting checkpoints to claim progress
in relationships, this one’s more like carving through concrete with a plastic
spoon. Two years in, they still don’t know a damn thing about how each other
ended up in this whole situation because they refuse to ask each other anything
personal. It’s a good story, well written, I particularly like the alternating
point-of-view between chapters, but it’s so very hard to read. I kept just going
back to play _Anno_ instead of continuing reading, maybe I’m too fantasy-brained
to focus on the girls who somehow agree to live together for four years with a
mindset of trying not to get attached. I’ve only managed up to chapter 173, I
should really continue at some point, but y’know? Inshallah they fucking talk to
each other. 8/10.

[_The Demon King Loli Who Rules The World Will Never Be a Plaything!_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/the-demon-king-loi-who-rules-the-world-will-never-be-a-plaything/)
(统治世界的魔王小姐绝不做玩物！) is a gender-bender yuri harem _isekai_ web
novel about a boy who is forced (she poisoned him) into becoming the Evil God’s
pawn in a game against another god to control some random fantasy world. That
boy becomes the Demon King and also a short, silver haired girl,[^fn1] taking on
the name Luya. The series feels like a cross between
[_OVERLORD_](https://anidb.net/anime/10816) (オーバーロード \[5/10\]) and
[_No Game No Life_](https://anidb.net/anime/9998)
(ノーゲーム・ノーライフ \[5/10\]), or maybe and edgier version of
[_The Genius Prince’s Guide to Raising a Nation Out of Debt_](https://anidb.net/anime/16028)
(天才王子の赤字国家再生術 \[5/10\])? The way Luya tries to maintain her prestige
but just comes off as endearingly adorable instead, reminds me a bit of
[_Is It Funny That The Dragon Slayer Failed And Became The Dragon Princess?_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/is-it-funny-that-the-dragon-slayer-failed-and-became-the-dragon-princess/)
(屠龙失败变成龙族公主很好笑吗？\[6/10\]). The actual premise of the story is
reminiscent of “slow life” type _isekai_, where the protagonist just wants to
chill out in another world but keeps getting involved in things; she was
promised she could enjoy herself surrounded by hot girls by the Evil God, but
she’s too busy trying to fix their failing nation to get around to it. I’d say
it approaches that idea much better than
[_Because I’ve Been Reincarnated As A Girl I Just Want To Do Yuri Things, But Things Aren’t Going Well_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/because-ive-been-reincarnated-as-a-girl-i-just-want-to-do-yuri-things-but-things-arent-going-well/)
(TS転生したから百合百合したいだけなのに中々うまくいかない \[4/10\]), at least I
wasn’t tearing my hair out about historical misconceptions this time. The story
is decently written and nicely contained in its 228 chapter length, which is
probably why I was willing to give this a 7/10 after finishing it. However, the
author using AI generated images for the characters could easily drop it to a
4/10 if the site I read it on actually[^fn2] loaded them!

[_Can The Defeated and Captured Heroine Still Be Happy?_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/can-the-defeated-and-captured-heroine-still-be-happy/)
(战败被俘的勇者小姐还会幸福吗) is a gender-bender _yuri_ fantasy _isekai_ web
novel about the transmigrated hero Monet being defeated by the Dragon Queen Iris
only for his System to sacrifice itself to turn him into a dragon girl
thereafter named Naya. It’s something of a kitchen sink of a series, which is
understandable from a first time web novel author. The issue is how little it
follows through on! When Naya acquires a new system, it reawakens memories from
before her transformation that were previously lost, which is where the story
really begins. At that time, she’s married to Iris, already has a five-year-old
daughter, and is not pregnant with another child. Naya contends with suddenly
remembering she was a man, a dragon slaying hero, and a transmigrator from Earth
in rather short order, if anything she has more issue accepting being a dragon
than a woman. In humanoid form, dragons have horns and tails, Naya has little
knowledge of what to do with these beyond instinct, and she has never “reverted”
to her true dragon form. Beyond some shyness of suddenly realizing she’s in a
very intimate relationship with another woman, don’t expect much from the
gender-bender aspect here. For a while, there’s a big focus on Naya’s ideas of
family, being a human from Earth, and how that contrasts with the culture of
this other world, the culture of dragons, and, most importantly, the lineage of
dragon royalty. One would be forgiven, perhaps even righteous, to believe Naya
has a breeding fetish with how obsessive she is about having and raising
children… so is this a child rearing series? Not really. There’s plenty of focus
on dealing with their daughter, Ilya, as she matures from a spoiled mommy’s girl
into a respectable crown princess, but it gets tossed aside by time skips the
moment the series has made it clear she’s on that path. Naya has knowledge from
Earth, does she do any _isekai_ type things about it? As a mother and housewife,
despite having maids around, she loves cooking for her family, and occasionally
will use recipes from her past life. Scientific knowledge, though? There have
always been transmigrators from Earth in this world, what can she even offer? A
grad school level understanding of astrophysics is basically a prerequisite for
understanding the past glory of the dragons, plus the firmament is an illusion
constructed by usurper gods anyway. Her System exists to push her to kill Iris,
so it’s always at odds with Naya who is obsessively in love with her wife, that
plot extends through the entire series at least, since the System is just one of
many. Other than the fight against the Main God that backs the System, the only
reasonable way to classify the entire series is probably as _ecchi_, if you
accept Chinese censorship circumventing metaphorical lesbian sex as _ecchi_.
Near the climax of the story, we suddenly get a clearer look at the greatness of
Dragon Queen Iris as not just a leader, but also an alchemist… it’s Fullmetal
Alchemist alchemy. Suddenly, there’s this obsession with immortality thrown in
and… I got bored, dropped at chapter 251 (out of 267 + some side stories), 5/10.

This series really makes me want to talk about tagging. I didn’t originally find
this on NovelUpdates, so I didn’t see what it was marked as beyond what the
translator’s site showed. First off, there’s the “rape,” “rape victim becomes
lover,” and “Stockholm Syndrome” tags. These are what I call “blacklisting
tags,” basically content warnings. Because these exist mainly to help people
avoid topics they’re uncomfortable with, they should be _strict_. After
regaining her memory, Naya is initially hesitant about Iris’s intimacy, not to
mention Iris had hidden the fact that she impregnated Naya from her. I’d agree
this deserves the “rape” tag for that. The others, though? When Naya was first
taken in, she was an experimental subject, and Iris used her genes to create
Ilya’s egg via alchemy. Naya wanted Ilya to have a real family, a wish Iris
granted by taking Naya as her queen consort. It was only after this that they
fell in love and reached the intimacy they have now. At best, you could argue
that Naya after regaining memories, sleeping with Iris, then finally accepting
her situation completely, could justify these tags if you ignore the fact that
she’s uncomfortable specifically because she’s still in love with Iris after
regaining memories. On the other hand, the “enemies to lovers” tag is more of a
“whitelist tag,” it shouldn’t be applied for technicalities as it’s a trope
people generally seek out. Naya was a hero set on defeating Iris, they’re now
lovers, it is enemies to lovers, technically. This all happens in the first
couple chapters as a summary. It isn’t an enemies to lovers _story_.
{:.no-indent}

[_Divine Maiden, Please Devour this Malevolent One_](https://www.novelupdates.com/series/divine-maiden-please-devour-this-malevolent-one/)
(神女大人，请吃掉恶神小姐吧) is a gender-bender yuri mystery romance fantasy web
novel about Bai Lianyue, the Terran Malevolence, former hero of some sort,
deciding to raise the children of the Divine Maiden she ate. Way back when she
was the leader of the heroes, Lianyue was betrayed by her comrade so that he
could use her daughter’s power for some weird plot. It’s cool how she decided to
eat the monster she was thrown to, which is how she became what she is now: the
Terran Malevolence whose mind is usually clouded and is constantly corroded by
her own power. Eating the body of a Diving Maiden has stabilized that corrosion,
further aided by being around the children of said Maiden. I don’t really enjoy
stories where the main character is just kind of an idiot like this, so I didn’t
vibe too well with this one. Her adopted daughter wanting to fuck her is kind of
neat; did she really learn all this lesbianism from the gay catgirl princess?
Who knows. Might come back to this one at some point, the story itself is
generally rather interesting, at least up to vol. 3, ch. 27 where I’ve reached.
I’ll give this one a 5/10.

## Footnotes 

[^fn1]:
    The usage of the term “loli” to mean any short and/or cute girl often throws
    me off when they actually mention the character’s height and they’re taller
    than my older sister… sometimes, they’re even taller than me ;\~;

[^fn2]:
    I read to the end on super cool epic Vietnamese website, but I started it
    with an actual English translation that did, in fact, include those
    “illustrations.” Truly, just using some random art you liked until you can
    get an illustrator for your series is a lost art for web novels.
