---
author: una
entry: "<code>0x00</code>"
lang: en
layout: post
license: BY-NC-ND
permalink: /hakkenteki/0x00
series: hakkenteki
series_index: 0
tags: fiction novel isekai fantasy magic
title: "<code>init();</code>"
---

Greetings, beloved reader!

This is the first chapter in what will hopefully be a long running web novel!
I haven't written any fiction in a while, which makes me a bit nervous about
taking this project on, but to be honest I just didn't feel inspired to write
anything else (笑))). I do hope you enjoy and I appreciate any feedback you send
my way!

💞 Una
{: .signature}

A child and a parent stood at odds in a dimly lit basement. Boxes of already
loosely packed clothes had been tossed about, a laptop lay on the floor with a
screen smashed beyond recognition.
{: .section-break}

“You’re a fucking disgrace, just fucking worthless. I let you live here, I
didn’t have to do that, I can kick you out,” the parent shouted in the child’s
face, face red in rage.

“Then do it, see if I give a shit!” retorted the child.

“You think I won’t!? After everything you’ve done!? Get out of my sight, you’re
not my son anymore.”

“Good, I never wanted to be.”

Doors slammed as the two broke off their fight, the parent stomping away to
some other part of the modest home. The child remained there, quickly grabbing
a backpack from the corner and tossing a few handfuls of the scattered clothes
into it. They glanced at the laptop, debating if it was even worth its own
weight anymore, reluctantly resigning to force it into the bag.

“Way to go Julius, you fucked everything up again, haha. Every time, every
fucking time. Waste of space, piece of shit, stupid fucking…” the child mumbled
to theirself, checking their pockets for anything that might be forgotten.
There was only a phone, yet that was all they intended to carry aside from the
missing wallet.

They hurriedly searched around the room, under the remaining clothes, under the
bed, a spot on the floor here or there, and finally found it laying in the
corner by the stairway. The child sighed upon noticing it, as it spread open
with the ID window in full view. “Haha, great, you got me there,” they groaned
while picking it up, then sliding it into their pocket alongside the phone as
they ran up the stairs.

Their footsteps lightened as they reached the top of the stairs, trying to open
the door silently and slip through, not bothering to close it and make more
unnecessary noise. As they rushed toward the door, weight on their toes, they
glanced to the side to see the parent and the child’s mother in the dining room
in a heated discussion with raised voices. The child’s eyes met with the
mother’s, and that expression… pity? Perhaps, or maybe disappointment? Some
sort of directed sadness. A resigned letting go.

The child stepped into their shoes, heels pressing down the backs, quicker to
bear with it than to untie the laces. They swung the door open, and, after
stepping out onto the tiled path, closed it slowly, quietly. And so they walked
away, down the quiet suburban street, toward some unknown destination,
somewhere that was not that place.

Death comes for us all.
{: .section-break}

Some fear it, run from it, do all in their power to avoid it. Others wait for it, embrace it, welcome it with all their heart. Still others are merely apathetic to it, not caring whether it comes for them or not. People are, of course, fluid beings, and one who at a time may not think much of death may at another obsess over it. The reasons for such a change can vary as well, for some it may be responding to the world around them and for some time is all that is necessary to effect this.

Here we are concerned with a particular young man who was himself unsure of the cause of this change, only knowing that it had occurred at some point. Perhaps it is unfair to reduce his position down as such, however, as before he hadn't concerned himself over whether he was to live or die, and now he was both enamored and disgusted with the thought of his own end. He could feel a constant pining for the reaper, a feeling he was tempted to indulge in at times but more frequently was scared by.

It was this contradiction that drove him to seek change in himself; once a loner with more time to spare than he could bare, he pushed himself to be social and filled the gaps in his weeks with work. In this attempt to cover up his inner self, he only became more aware of parts that were previously shrouded by those issues he had brought to the forefront.
